Munich, 12-15-1996

<pic images/minga.ps Munich. Jumping-off point of plenty of exciting happenings.>

<HTMLONLY><blockquote></HTMLONLY>
<PRINTONLY>\begin{quote}</PRINTONLY>

<em>It's an odd thing that anyone who disappears is said to be seen in SAN FRANCISCO.</em> -- Oscar Wilde

<PRINTONLY>\vspace{0.1cm}</PRINTONLY>

My dears!!

<em>Angelika</em> 
I've been thinking for a long time,
how my xmas mail this year  should look like. But due
to my process of packing boxes to move I decided to
write a possibly rather impersonal newsletter. On
doing this I can't avoid to tell things some of you
may already know, but better twice than not at all. 

<pic images/wriehl.ps Wilhelm-Riehl-street in Munich. This is were international careers start.>

We've experienced a year full of events with many
unforgettable highlights such a our wedding in
august.Many of you joined the celebration respectively
kept us in mind.. We'll always remember our
celebration as well as our  honey moon to Australia
and we often reminisce about it. 

<pic images/bungle.ps The Bungle-Bungle in Australia.>

<pic images/redsand.ps The red sand on a dusty route with a gas station only each 300 miles.>

<pic images/effektiv.ps The book 'Go to Perl 5' made by Schilli>

@Z: Let's go to San Francisco, CA

So a big dream comes true: We're gonna live in S.F.
for a while. Our plan is to stay there for two to
three years. A lot of people keep asking how come
Michael got job offer in S.F. . Due to this story
being kind of adventurous I'm gonna tell you right
here. Those who already know just skip the next
passage. 

In april a former colleague gave us a call to ask
Michael if he was willing to work for his current
company in Munich.Michael initially declined because
he didn't want to change his job another time. Indeed
he had only been employed to Softlab for one and a
half years. Moreover he explained his denial because
he wanted to work in the U.S. for some time and he was
waiting for such offer. The colleague was like: 'No
problem, just work at our branch in San Francisco. At
first we didn't take it that serious but a few days
after the manager called and repeated the offer.
That's how it all got started. Finally Michael had a
fixed job contract.. 

Michael has an American contract meaning he follows
totally American work conditions. That is for instance
10 days of vacations a year, American medical
insurance and so on. The company Michael is going to
work for develops new ideas for the internet. Michael
says:'Now I get money for what I like to do.' 

@Z: A job for Angelika?

In concerns of me I'm not gonna be allowed to work.
Americans are very, very strict with work permits and
I only do have a visa to come with Michael. (Michael
calls it a coattail visa) In case I got a job offer
there the employer had to give proof that I wouldn't
take the job from any American, in fact having to
authorize a lawyer to receive the work permit.. If an
institution takes the effort and finances is doubtful.
The social area isn't known for being overfinanced.
That's why I decided to do some voluntary inturnships
which is allowed of course.

Sure enough it's a hard thing for me to quit my job
above all having been in a superior position in that
institution. Saying goodbye is even harder because I'm
quite attached tot he kids I teach. Well, You can't
have it all. Ultimately I'm not gonna waste away
that's not the way I am.

Certainly  Michael and me will use the time to
experience a lot of the landscape since California has
a lot to offer. I'm absolutely looking forward tot he
ocean that will be literally in our backyard over
there. 

By the way Michael already had a flight to San
Francisco on nov 11th because he's been working over
there since nov 11th. I'm going to join on dec 30th
after having spent christmas in Oldenburg with my
parents. It's a strange feeling, to stay without
Michael, but since it's only for another two weeks and
we'll see each other.

<pic images/costco.ps Michael buys things needed for a living at Costco: a TV, toilet paper and beer.>

We're gonna spend New Year's Eve with our friends
Sylvia and Richard. Richard and Sylvia live in San
Jose, an hour drive away from San Francisco. But we're
gonna spend New Year's Eve together in San Francisco.
We've booked a candle light dinner on a boat and will
be cruising in the bay of San Francisco. Sounds great,
huh?

@Z: The Appartment

By the way Michael has already found an appartment in
San Francisco. Accomodations in the city ae pretty
expensive but nevertheless we made the decision to
live where something's going on. If we'd moved into
the suburbs we would have needed two cars for sure and
I might've been very isolated since I don't work. In
America another problem is that you gotta pay for your
safety. That means that appartments in safer areas are
consequently more expensive.  For sure that's a more
common problem in cities than it is in rural areas. 

In ordert o give you an idea how our appartment looks
like I briefly quote Michael when he wrote a letter:

<em>Plenty of young people are living in the house
that I partly already got to know and they're quite
nice people. The view of the window is breathtaking:
I'm on the third floor and have a look all over San
Francisco including parts of the skyline: You can see
all these winding buildings, real awesome.

The surrounding is better than Berkeley and anything
I've seen so far from San Francisco: Innumerable small
shops for jewellery, clothes and grocery, a large
supermarket that opens from 6am till 12pm, hair salons
and of course 20 restaurants at least, among them
Japanese ones as well as Italian ones. I was kind of
touches when I went around the block fort he first
time. And it's all just a corner away! Though the
appartment is absolutely calm cuase it leads tot he
atrium. You can't top that I guess!

Noe Valley, how the quarter is called, is totally
safe. Noe Valley is equivalent to Schwabing, just the
American version oft it.

The appartment's kitchen is type of a
darkish-brown-American style, kind of ugly but
usable."
</em>

I hope these descriptions make you wanna visit us
soon.

Not to forget we live in a two-bedroom appartment
(three bedroom are not affordable) that has a monthly
rent of $ 1100.

To end with I'm telling you bout our storage boxes: On
December 23rd most of our stuff are going to be stored
on the big attic of Michael's uncle who lives close to
Augsburg. For the U.S. we have shipped a container of
the size of approx. 200 ft' It's mostly books, dishes,
clothes and some personal stuff i n there. Plus our
bed and the good, old IKEA shelves from former student
times have been sent with it. The container was loaded
last week and will presumably arrive in San Francisco
in four weeks. 

<pic images/kisteein.ps The container is getting shipped. In two months it is going to appear in San Francisco. We can definitely recommend the company Forster in Munich.>

Well, that's the most important update. I wish you a
wonderful christmas and hope that  some of you might
visit us in 1997. Of course I'll leave with mixed
emotions. Not to feel lonely in the new worls, we'd
appreciate you to mail us on the regular.

My next newsletter will be sent from San Francisco
then.

Love,

Angelika (Munich) and Michael (San Francisco)
