San Francisco, 01-26-1997

@Translator: Boris Kleinbach, kleinbach@ymail.com

Dear all,

<em>Angelika</em> 
Certainly you’ve already been craving for
a sign of life by me/us. Due to he fact that many of you
liked our christmas newsletter and we do have a lot to
report I decided to write another one providing you with
information on my first impressions. Let’s get started:

@Z: The arrival

<pic images/wohn.ps San Francisco: From the living room window>

On December 30th 1996, I landed on San Francisco airport.
Michael and our friends Sylvia and Richard welcomed me
properly. Since I arrived at night, I could only admire the
lights of the city. I was quite excited of our apartment
and I have to admit that I wasn’t disappointed. Despite of only
having two rooms, the apartment is spacious enough for the two of
us because we didn’t bring that much furniture. I guess
we’ll get pretty comfortable. We’ve already bought a
futon-couch. It can be used as a bed for guests at the same
time: You can tell, we’re thinking practically.

<pic images/view.ps Living room window view: a palm tree, downtown and bay>

Our kitchen is -- as Michael already described -- sort of
American-uglyish. The most fascinating to me is the
extra large stove and the refrigerator. Also a funny thing
are the obligatory emergency stairs that can be abused as
a balcony in summer. The view out of our window is
stunning. We can see palm trees, Victorian buildings, the
skyline of San Francisco and, on a sunny day, we can even see
the Bay and the ships cruising there.

<pic images/panorama.ps Panorama View>

There are seven parties living in our house, most of them young people,
all being very nice. The house belongs to a Chinese man
who never shows up. He lets his estate agent handle everything. 
The house quite ressembles my student home during my
studies in Münster. The neighborhood where we are
living is called Noe Valley and is one of the most
beautiful parts of San Francisco, because it has so
many Victorian houses. 24th street being situated in
front of our house has a lot of nice tiny shops (boutiques,
florists, a great stationery shop, a supermarket that is
open till midnight, a post office and so on). Another
positive is that there’s plenty of little cafés and pretty
good restaurants. Michael and I are testing them out one by one, 
which is a lot of fun.  

<pic images/noe2.ps Of course there’s a street named Noe Street in Noe Valley>

By the way, I forgot
to mention that there is a laundromat across the street from
our appartment that we use frequently since we don't have a
washing machine in our appartment or in the
basement of our house. My friend Sylvia told me that it is
a common thing to use the laundry salon if you rent an
apartment. I guess presumably we’re not going to buy a washing
machine, since it’s pretty exciting to watch the
people that go to the laundromat. Unfortunately, there
is no dishwasher in our apartment. Usually it is
quite common that the installed kitchen already has a dishwasher
and a microwave. Due to our house being pretty old, we'll be missing
out on this luxury.
Those of you who know Michael and me, know
that we don’t like washing dishes and this condition is not
gonna last for a long time. At the moment we manage the
dishes well but this is because we only borrowed a few from
Sylvia. This is because our container hasn’t yet arrived in
the US. That’s why Sylvia provides the most important
things to us: a table, chairs and a bed.

<pic images/church.ps Church street and the laundromat next to it>

@Z: Safe and not so safe neighborhoods

Let’s get back to our neighborhood: Another
important fact is that Noe Valley is very safe, which means
that you can walk around at daytime as well as during
the night without being afraid. At the moment it bothers
me most that you have to think about whether it's safe or
not before you can go anywhere.
Sometimes that ends up in taking a detour
instead of crossing an unsafe area. In this respect, 
San Francisco is a typical American city: absolutely peaceful
residential neighborhoods change to totally scruffy areas just
two streets away, and you should try hard to avoid those at
nighttime. I’m afraid Michael has a talent to wander into
these scruffy quarters. Like last Sunday on a public bus tour, we
crossed a part of town we’d even avoid to get off at daytime.
There were burned car wrecks on the sidewalk, piles of junk
evergrowing, and no white person in sight. The busdriver
didn’t open the doors in this area though people were
waiting on the bus stops. We found that he was anxious
about us because he kept on looking in the rear view mirror
and kept eye-contact with us. That was kind of calming. In
such situations I'm longing for safe cities like Munich. 

<pic images/ksf.ps The transportation boxes from Munich arrive in San Francisco.>

I hope my description won’t keep you from
visiting us. Don’t worry, Michael can highlight the scruffy
areas on the map, and I swear there’s still
enough places that don’t have to be highlighted because they are
relatively safe.  

What really is shocking to us, is the
poverty that follows you all the time you’re walking
through San Francisco. There are many homeless
beggars. If you walk beyond a bridge you’ll always find two
or three homeless people that sleep there looking for
shelter from the weather. A big issue is that the
conditions to receive social benefits have recently
gotten worse. The government is planning to limit payment of social
benefits to two years. If you don’t find a
job by then, you won’t receive social benefits anymore. They say
they are going to introduce support programs to help the
unemployed find jobs, although there is debate
in the liberal newspapers about this
because they think that’s not enough. If you read the local 
newspapers, you'll find that they attribute the rise of
violence and crime partly to bad education, especially in
public schools. Nevertheless, there are no protests by the 
general population. The
old-fashioned prejudice about America is still true indeed:
In case you’re healthy, young, Caucasian and willing to
take a risk, you can achieve anything in America. In case
you’re poor, sick, black or old, you’d better not live in
America.  

I hope I haven't focussed too much on these horror
scenarios but I think that you’re interested in a
realistic image of America. Anyway, it’s different if you
live in that country or are just traveling there as a
tourist. Even as a tourist, you notice the social distress
and the social unjustice, but you’re involved in a totally
different way if you're living there.  

@Z: Driver’s license and Social Security Number 

I'm sure some of you want to know now
what I’m doing all day long when Michael is at work,
working on his computer. At the moment, I’m still exploring
the closer area and need to deal with the bureaucratic stuff.
Living in America, respectively California, you can’t go 
without two things:

1) The social security number (SSN)
2) The California driver’s license.

Since there is no
national ID card in the U.S., you need both the driver’s
license and the SSN to identify yourself. However, the
problem is that you only get a SSN if you’re either an
American citizen or if you are, as Michael is, employed in the
U.S., neither one does apply to me. Unfortunately, you
need the SSN for almost anything (to open a bank account,
to attend a course at a public college, to get a
California driver license and so on). You’re not a person if you
don’t have an SSN.

In my case, we had to do it like this: First of all, I had to
pass the theoretical exam for the driver's license. 
With the certificate of having
passed the theoretical exam, I could then apply for the SSN,
which in turn is required for taking the practical
exam for the driver's licence. 
The SSN has since been sent to me, now I can
finally  take the practical test for the driver’s license.
My test is due on February 8th and Michael keeps on teasing
me on a daily basis that I’m not gonna pass it. 

<pic images/socsec.ps Angelika receives the desired SSN>

Both foreigners and American citizens have to pass the exam
for the California driver’s license. Citizens even have to 
pass it again if they move here from a
different state. Usually, Americans
don’t have to take the practical test, however. Those of you
who think the written exam is easy might be in for a surprise. 
I really had to
study for it and the practical test not only consists of
driving around on a parking lot but, it’s a real driving test in traffic.
Michael even had to turn within three moves on a street. To
get you an idea of how my theoretical exam was like, I put
a variation of the questions below. (They said I could take the
questionnaire home with me). 

1. You are driver of a slow-moving
vehicle on a curvy road with only one lane in each direction.
You have to pull over and stop when it’s safe to do so and
let other drivers pass if a certain number of vehicles
is following:

+ 3 vehicles + 4 vehicles + 5 vehicles

2. When you arrive at a corner (an intersection) with a
flashing yellow light you have to: +stop before passing the
intersection + wait fort he green light + decelerate and
cross the intersection with considerately.

So, would you
have known the answers? The test was in German, by the way.
It seems that you can choose any language for the theoretical exam. In
San Francisco, there’s plenty of people who are living here but who
aren’t able to speak English. The neighborhood next to us is
called "The Mission" and only consists of Spanish speaking
immigrants. If you go to a restaurant there, it is
quite likely that you have to order in Spanish.

<pic images/dmvtest1.ps The questionaire the auditor has o fill in during the practical exam.>

<pic images/dmvtest2.ps The backside.>

I have been going to college for an English course in this
quarter since February 21st. It’s called "English as a
Second Language" and it’s provided by the City College. You
could compare the City College to the German
"Volkshochschule". A difference, though, is that it’s also a
kind of vocational school meaning you could also become a
nurse there for instance. The course "English as a second
language" is offered for free. In order to take the course, you
first have to do an orientation test. 

To perform this test was
really quite the event for me. Including me, there were approximately 30
people taking the test. Among these, 25 were Spanish
speakers, and that’s why the explanations were translated to
Spanish. From time to time, the teachers
forgot that about 5 people in the classroom didn’t
understand a word of Spanish. Consequently, we often had to ask for an
English explanation. Many of the participants had already
been living in the U.S. for five years and more, but hardly spoke a 
word of English.

The test was kind of a reading exercise, meaning
you had to read a story and then fill in the gaps in
another text we were handed afterwards. That is to say, the test was
about comprehension and grammar. The first text was
really easy. If you passed it, you
had to take a second, more difficult text. I accomplished a level 8
out of 8, what a show-off I am!) and I realized that our
education system in Germany is frankly not that bad. 

With my stellar test results, I am now allowed to 
take any course at City College, theoretically I could even attend the nursing
class. I'll stick with my English course, though. They're providing
an intensive course for level 7/8 that is held
for two hours each day from Monday through Friday. The course goes on
for a semester (from January through May). So, I'm going there every
day. It’s really fun. My class consists of 24 people from
all over the world. Mostly, it’s people from Mexico and El
Salvador. We're working with a real exercise book and we even
get homework from time to times. It really is like
school. But I'm learnng a lot and I enjoy being around people. 

<pic images/preyes.ps The Pacific at Point Reyes.>

And what’s going on the weekends? I have to admit, we’re
always on tour: Either we're visiting San Fracisco, or we're exploring
the nearby areas. For example, we spent a weekend with
Sylvia and Richard in Napa Valley und did some wine
tasting recently, and on another weekend we were driving on highway 1
along the ocean to enjoy the beautiful views of the
landscape. Since we don’t own a car yet, we usually rent one
for these trips. That’s also because renting a car in the
U.S. is not that expensive. There’s definitely innumerable
things to do and it’s a lot of fun to go on discovery trips
on the weekends. Mostly, I love the ocean, and I still
can’t believe that it is located so close to our house.

What I miss is my job, the children I worked with and even though
I can volunteer in social institutions here it’s not comparable to
my old job at Domus in Munich.

Alright, you left-behinds. Keep us in
memory and write us a letter! Although San Francisco is very
appealing and exciting, as an expat sometimes you become homesick (and I do a lot).

Love,

Angelika and Michael  
