
San Francisco, 03-17-1997

@Translator: Boris Kleinbach, kleinbach@ymail.com

<pic images/diego.ps Probably one of the best inline skaters at the beach of San Diego>

Dear people at home!

<em>Angelika</em> 
Finally, I'd like to start my second
newsletter. Many of you have already been waiting for
another sequel. Over the past six weeks so much has
happened that this letter is definitely going to be a
little longer than usual.

@Z: Earthquakes

<em>Angelika</em> 
On Monday, we experienced our first
earthquake. Actually, there were even two of them with a
rating of 3.6 on the scale. Anyways, Michael and I were
comfortably sitting on our futon-couch at 10:30 pm, when
I thought I noticed that our couch was moving.  Since
you consider any small vibration (often caused by trucks
passing by) to be an earthquake if you live in San
Francisco, Michael and I had to discuss first what it really
was. Michael insisted it was the wind. He couldn’t
explain to me though why it should move our couch
because the windows were closed plus it was a windless
day in spring. When I had barely said those words the
second earthquake started. This time, even Michael was
convinced that it was an earthquake. He went to his
notebook without saying a word to find out about
the magnitude of this earthquake. You can easily get
this information instantly on the Internet. Even the
movie they were showing on TV was interrupted. As usual,
they interviewed a person living in San Francisco
who had witnessed the big earthquake of 1989. That person
smartly explained that in San Francisco, you never know
if a small earthquake leads to a bigger one. I wanted
to shut his mouth so badly, since I was already
frightened to death. The earthquake indeed wasn’t so
bad and not a single thing broke, but the feeling
that the ground is moving and might even split open, 
has squelched my desire for adventures for years to come.

<pic images/quake.ps The current Californian earthquake map in the internet: http://quake.wr.usgs.gov/recenteqs>

TODO

You can imagine for sure that Michael found it all very exciting and
adventurous. His comment on the issue was that he had never experienced an
earthquake before and this was consequently a unique opportunity to him. I
slept badly all night always feeling as if I was falling into a bottomless hole
in the ground.  So what do you do the following day after an earthquake? You
thoroughly watch any vibrancy, any movement, any shaking. For the umpteenth
time you think about the safest place in the apartment and that we bought a
dining table that even can be pulled out to give space underneath to potential
guests. You really wonder if it was that clever to put all these pictures on
the wall and give grace to yourself that you finally didn’t put the picture
with the heavy frame above your bed. You wonder if the TV really is on a safe
place on that shelf. You curse the overground electricity cables that might hit
you severely at the next earthquake. Further more you question yourself if you
shouldn’t take an earthquake survival class and if statistics on earthquakes
are trustworthy.  To sum up I’m totally fed up with earthquakes and I truly can
go on without another one.  How to get a Californian driver’s license The
second story that many of you surely will enjoy is that one, concerning my
American driver’s license. Short and briefly and not to tantalize you: I failed
the first time and not because I ran a stop sign or hit a pedestrian but only
because I went to fast in the opinion of my tester. He claimed that I crossed
the traffic light when it was on green. (I was assuming that’s just what green
lights are for.) Also I should’ve watched my right and left just in case a
drunk driver could pass and run the red lights. Sometimes Americans are nuts.
The climax is still coming up: The second time I passed it with excellence. I
had a different tester who couldn’t quite get why I failed the first time. He
only criticized that I exaggerated watching the scenery for instance on
crossing an intersection with green lights. Thank God you don’t fail in
American if you drive too carefully.  To get you an even clearer idea of
American drivers I quote some sentences of Paul Watzlawick from his book
„Gebrauchsanweisung für Amerika“ (Manual for America) : „ the average American
is the most reasonable, polite and helpful driver that you could think of and
his roads are exemplary. (These virtues explain why American tourists consider
European drivers as kamikaze pilots and European roads as tricky and deadly
mantraps.- …They’re going to tear their hair when the driver in front of them
almost stops at green lights (just to be careful) or stops abruptly at a
crosswalk because it seems as if within the next ten seconds there might be
possibly someone willing to cross the road. “It’s amazing how many curiosities
and differences you find in daily American life. To get you an image I’m going
to get you some examples. Obviously there are exceptions.  Finances The
American bank system is totally different to the German system that transfers
into an account, the common payment made by direct debit and money transfer
orders. That is most likely because Americans want to decide by themselves when
to pay their rent, their electricity bill, telephone bill and so on…
Consequently, you have to write several checks a month to pay your debts. Those
checks will be sent via mail and sometime the receiver will cash it. Since
American banks don’t offer overdraft loans, you really have to keep in mind,
when did you write and to whom? If a check can’t be cashed in because there is
no coverage you are seriously in trouble. So you have a booklet to fill out all
in- and outcomes to know the current balance in advance. Actually you could
simply get your account statement but it only shows the current balance and
not, the sum that will be on the account when all checks are cashed in. That
sounds a little complicated and kind of pedestrian and I tell you one thing: It
is! At some point you are going to lose track of your balance and you are
desperately looking for a missing asset because you made a miscalculation in
your booklet or you forgot to fill out something. Finally you ask for the last
bookings via phone banking. Phone banking is quite popular in the U.S. anyway
since there is no inconvenient check writing included. Though, this kind of
business is suspect to Europeans and doesn’t make you keep track on the
finances. Michael states that the American mail company is only that cheap
because there is an enormous amount of checks being sent via mail.  Normally
any American is an artist what concerns finances because he barely pays in cash
but with a large variety of credit cards or personal checks plus it’s getting
more and more common to use ATM cards. This leads to losing track at the end of
the month and many Americans have to pay their debts on a credit card with a
different one or are in debt because of this.  By the way it’s not possible for
a foreigner to receive an American credit card in an instant. That’s because
you don’t have a credit record yet. The credit record tells if you’re
trustworthy and if credits that have been taken once, have been paid back as
planned. Even if one owns a German credit card you don’t have an American
credit record due to the fact that both the American and the German system
aren’t connected to each other. So we have to deal with the fact that any
18-year old American has a bunch of credit cards but we have to wait for a year
to get such a plastic card. After a year we’re going to be residents of
California and are thus trustworthy. Why is that? I can’t tell you to be
honest.  Public Transportation Another curiosity is public transportation in
San Francisco. The good news first: San Francisco has either buses, trams and
an underground. The underground is quite reliable meaning it runs after a
schedule and is mostly punctual. Buses and trams only run after a rough
schedule. Schedules on bus stops tell that they come each ten minutes during
the week but in reality you either wait for hours for a bus or a tram or there
are two buses going the same route at a time. The tram is aching and choking
and you might think it’ll break in a second or jump the rails.  Since there are
plenty of hills in San Francisco you need to pray to arrive safely. Even to go
by bus is quite an adventure, because in contrast to other American drivers the
busdrivers are pretty kamikaze and the buses normally go through one or two
poorer quarters. Those people who complain about the Munich transportation
system should come to San Francisco. But if you wait at a bus stop here there
is at least one positive side effect: everybody complains about the buses and
trams being so late that you get in touch with total strangers easily to
shorten the time to wait. At the weekend you should take something with you to
spend the time waiting (e.g. a book) because the underground as well as buses
and trams run even more rarely.  Despite these difficulties we haven’t bought a
car yet but rely on public transportation because even driving a car in San
Francisco is a challenge. You never find a parking lot or have to park at
different places when the street cleaners come across. Whenever I’m fed up with
waiting at a bus stop I decide to walk. On a sunny day the fantastic view on
the city from the hilly roads really compensates former stress.  If you go by
car in San Francisco there is another phenomena. On bigger streets with several
lanes there are homeless people at the traffic lights that try to beg for money
on red.  Vegetable fat and spiritus There is another funny story about daily
life: We planned to have a fondue dinner on the evening of my birthday as it is
kind of a tradition with us. We assumed that would not lead to any problems but
it did. So we wanted to buy some high-heatable fat. Most of the fats being sold
here are either fat-reduced or even fat-free (I have no clue how Americans do
this) You just can’t heat it enough. So what’s the plan? I finally asked my
friend Sylvia who has been living in the U.S. for a while for some advice. She
told me to get Crisco, a vegetable fat that we would find in the baking
department of stores. Moreover she explained to us that there is no spiritus in
the U.S. but only a so-called cooking fuel that looks like a charcoal lighters.
Unfortunately we couldn’t find some. Well, we had already bought the meat and
the other ingredients. So we moved the stove and the table in the center of the
kitchen fondue-pan on the stove. It obviously wasn’t really romantic but very
funny.  So what else have we done over the past 6 weeks?  Seaworld San Diego We
were on tour a lot. We spent a weekend in San Diego with Sylvia and Richard.
Through Richard’s company we got a beautiful house in the noble quarter La
Jolla (comparable to Beverly Hills in Los Angeles). We didn’t have to pay for
the house even though it was extremely large and luxurious (including a pool
and a hot tub). What a luxurious estate!

Illustration [3]: Seaworld: Where the whales are… 

Illustration [4]: …and people!

Richard and I had a swim in the ocean at the end of February, imagine. Michael borrowed roller blades (kind of inliners) and went along the beachside. He was absolutely stoked and thus qualified to become a real Californian. Anyways we had a great time.

Illustration [5]: The largest hotel in the world: The MGM in Las Vegas
Las Vegas
We spent my birthday in Las Vegas. We were given a trip to Las Vegas for our wedding as a gift. It was pretty exciting to be there again after 10 years because we met there for the first time. Many things have changed in Vegas but the car rental company where we met was still there. Plus we were both very touched when we stood in front of the doors to ‘Brooks rent a car’. We took a photo using the automatic release. 

Illustration [6]: ‘Brook’s rent a car’ – The car rental service where we met 10 years ago - still in business! 
Las Vegas is definitely a crazy city. It’s all about gambling and the casinos become more and more gigantic. We were quite impressed of the new casino ‘New York, New York’. The skyline of New York had been built up originally, even the statue of liberty wasn’t missing. We didn’t win on gambling but unlucky at card means lucky at love, right?  

Illustration [7]: Nope, it’s not New York, it’s the casino ‘New York, New York’ in Las Vegas 


Illustration [8]:Casino Frontier: the employees are on strike because they feel exploited and call on German tourists to boycott the casino. 
Adventurous daily life
Last weekend we went to Berkeley. There we finally got our chairs that go with our new dining table. Later we went to the beach in San Francisco the so-called Baker Beach. The beach is located in the center of the city and resembles to a motive on a postcard. That’s because there is a white, sandy beach and at the end of the beach rises the majestic Golden Gate bridge. These moments are always very impressive to me. Apart from the poverty  you find here as I told you in the last newsletter,  San Francisco is a beautiful city.
Illustration [9]: Baker Beach in San Francisco. Windy but nice! 
This weekend we had another little adventure. Since Michael’s friend and coworker is currently in vacation, he gently lent us his car, a van. We once used it to go shopping when suddenly two police cars stopped a van on a different lane. One of the cops stopped his car crosswise behind the van and the other one in front of the van, the cops jumped out of their cars and opened the door of the van in an instant and without saying a word handcuffed the driver. We were right in front of the scene. You might think it’s a movie scene but it’s reality. Michael assumed merely that we were lucky that the cops didn’t stop our van by accident. Then we would be under arrest.
 Life without a job?
However, I still have my English lessons. I met a nice German woman there that comes from Hamburg. She worked there as a streetworker. She lives in our neighborhood and therefore we often stick together chatting or enjoy the sunshine on her balcony. We got in touch with Americans through Michael’s company and of course there’s also Richard (my friend Sylvia’s husband). Many of you are quite eager to know if I’m not bored since I have no job. But I’m not. Until midday I got my English course and then I usually need to do some homework. Well, and then there’s still some chores to do (get the mail done, go shopping, go to the laundry service, find out about the area, get information on social institutions...). I enjoy finally having time to read, do shopping trips or take photos. A job is missing though and I think of a lot of the kids I I used to teach in Germany. I miss being part of a team at a job. It’s also difficult to find training courses. I can’t participate in courses that I’m interested in because either they’re too expensive or I don’t qualify because I don’t have the American degrees required.  It’s very bureaucratic here. Sometimes I am quite frustrated if something doesn’t work the way I wanted. Therefore I can’t always enjoy my spare time. I got quite a bunch of addresses of social institutions for pre-school kids and I’ll take my time to look them through and maybe find one that fits me where I could volunteer. 
Next thing that comes up is the visit of my friend Christa who is going to stay for 3 weeks. We would like to discover California and San Francisco. I can’t wait for it. Michael still likes his job. At the moment he tries to find out how to fill out an American tax declaration and is about to give up but he has to deal with it. 
However, my dears, I will finish this newsletter now. We hope you won’t forget us. 
Love,
Angelika und Michael
