San Francisco, 09-15-1997

<pic images/fence.ps One of Angelika's children in kindergarten.>

Dear friends,

<em>Michael</em> 
Most of you already know this anyway, but now it's official: Since
September 15th, I no longer work for Blaxxun Interactive but for
America Online. Back in June, things looked so bleak for Blaxxun at
the old company that it seemed like it was almost too late, and
Angelika and I were already mentally sitting with one butt cheek on
the deportation plane. So, I took my suit and tie out of the closet,
coughed a bit because of the dust, rented a car, and went job
hunting.

@Z: Successful Job Search

<em>Michael</em> 
Currently, employers here in the U.S. are fortunately looking for software developers like
crazy. The only problem was that for a foreigner like me, between the
time the company makes a decision and the start of work, the INS
(Immigration and Naturalization Service) takes months to process and
produces a huge amount of paperwork. At U.S. companies,
applications usually go like this: "When can you start?" "Tomorrow!"
"Good!" But AOL was very interested because of my Perl expertise,
etc., and they provided the lawyer who kept the authorities in check
- and now I'm here!

<pic images/tshirt.ps Michael works and advertises for America Online.>

AOL Productions, the group I'm with, is working on new developments
for www.aol.com and some other projects for AOL (not everything,
there's another department in Virginia, on the East Coast of America,
that also develops) consists of about 70 people, all based in San
Mateo, 20 miles south of San Francisco. Like everyone else, I sit in a
cubicle (partitioned square in an open-plan office) with a PC and an
X-terminal. All very nice people, the guy in the cubicle next to
mine, Mike Gleeson, sat in front of the screen with sunglasses on all
day today - they're all freaks. Besides a Scot who has been living in
the US for 20 years, an Englishwoman, and a very Asian-looking
Frenchman, I'm the only 'alien' as it's so nicely called in
bureaucratic English here. The hardest part for me at the moment is
having to chatter in English all day. "How are you?" "Good! How about
yourself?" "Good!" "That's great!" It goes on like this all the time,
and Americans love to chat.

On Wednesday, there was a company outing to Alcatraz (for those
unfamiliar with America: the prison on the island off San Francisco).
Although it's a tourist attraction, most of the locals have never
been there, just like hardly any Munich residents go to the
Hofbräuhaus. When the tour guide there asked where we were from and
the guys said in perfect local dialect, "San Mateo!" he was quite
surprised and said, "Man, what a drive! Are you tired???

Today was the New Employee Welcome Lunch at TGIF's. That stands for
"Thank God it's Friday" and it's a chain that serves really hearty
American food, really good.

And I have to program in Java. My job description says: "Very strong
understanding of OO-development in Java." Well, that fits perfectly.
So, you can expect a Java book soon ...

It's a very relaxed atmosphere: No one (not even the boss) wears a
suit or tie or even a button down shirt. On my first day, when I parked my bike
downstairs, I was asked if I wanted to bring it up to the office like
everyone else - since then, it stays with me during the day - cool.
In the morning, I roll it over the carpet in the entrance hall, say
"Hello" to the receptionist (the first time she said, "Hey, you got a
bike - cool!") and then continue through the rows of cubicles...

<pic images/bike.ps Michael can no longer keep the bicycle on the ground because of its power.>

@Z: By Bike To Work

<em>Michael</em> 
Yes, bicycle: I ride daily to the train station (20 min), take the
train to San Mateo (25 min), and then ride up the steep hill to the
AOL building (15 min, downhill takes half the time). Since
Caltrain trains can carry a maximum of 24 bicycles and run only about
every half hour in the mornings and evenings, and because the weather
is absolutely world-class (maybe 2 rainy days since February),
unfortunately, more and more Americans are discovering this way of
commuting, and it often happens that you get 'kicked off the train.'
But Americans line up politely, and it's first come, first
served. Since it doesn't really matter when I arrive at or leave
work, I take it easy, buy myself a coffee, or eat a muffin until the
next train comes.

Cyclists in SF are currently staging a bit of a rebellion; every
Friday, there are bike demonstrations downtown with minor
disturbances because there's a debate about whether the new Bay
Bridge should have a bike lane or not, and yada yada yada. Overall,
cycling is slightly more dangerous than in Munich -- it can happen
that someone suddenly swings open a car door or makes a right turn
without signaling, but if you're used to it and shout loudly "Hey!
You got a submarine's driver's license or what?" it works out. I just
made up that line, though; you have to be very careful about
provoking drivers in the US because some carry guns and can react
very heatedly.

@Z: Working at AOL

<em>Michael</em> 
As an AOL employee, you get a free AOL account and an additional one,
which I will give to Angelika. Unfortunately, no more than that, so
requests are pointless! AND I AM ALSO NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR ANY BUSY
PHONE LINES OR SYSTEM CRASHES OF AOL OPERATIONS, DEAR AOL USERS! At
the moment, I am still getting used to all of this stuff since I
previously had a different internet provider, silly me! From now on,
I naturally have to promote AOL, so, folks, their stuff is really good,
buy it in masses!

Yes, and it's really nice at the company: There are vending
machines for drinks and snacks, for all-nighters and such. Fresh
fruit is available every day, and of course, there's coffee too.
There's a massage chair where you stretch out, press one of about 30
buttons, and then it rumbles and works, and your back gets massaged,
very pleasant. Then there's a pool table. A small fitness studio with
a rowing machine and so on. And since, as an AOL employee, you
naturally have to use the AOL software, you might click around in the
news, follow baseball games, or check the current price of AOL stock,
which you also benefit from. You see: I'm staying here.

So, this letter was written on a laptop on the Caltrain on the way
from San Francisco to San Mateo. I have to get off soon. And since
Angelika always complains that she gets so few responses to her
newsletters from you (if you're not one of the silent consumers,
you're off the hook, there are also diligent writers among you, but
just a few), the following verdict is issued: Anyone who doesn't
write a response won't get anything next time! Don't mess with
Schilli.

Habe die Ehre!

Your AOL-Michel.

P.S.: I had a good American joke explained to me yesterday: When you
make fun of a name, you say it twice and add a 'Schm' before it the
second time. "Did you ask Barry?" "Barry, Schmarry!" "How about
Daniel?" "Daniel, Schmaniel!" This is truly the ENDLESS joke; I could
recite it for hours. Angelika can't stand hearing it anymore...

P.P.S: A commendable feature at AOL offices: On Friday evening at 4, the
locked refrigerator is opened, and lo and behold, wonder of wonders,
it is full of beer! This is greeted with great excitement, and the
stock is immediately set upon for consumption. With music and pool
billiards, it's a lot of fun!
