San Francisco, 05-09-1998

<pic images/rainb.ps Rainbow over San Francisco.>

To the ones who stayed at home!

<em>Angelika</em> 
After I was horrified to realize that it has already been three
months since I wrote my last newsletter, I decided to sit down and
start typing on the laptop to entertain you with a thousand and one
adventures from here. Our life in recent weeks has been dominated by
one central theme: Perl book, Perl book, Perl book... Michael was
actually supposed to submit the second edition of his bestseller by
mid-March (according to the publisher's announcement), but the whole
thing keeps getting delayed because he is doing the typesetting
himself and is encountering millions of problems. Today, he has
threatened several times to throw the computer out the window, and I
never thought he could curse like that (his Bavarian temperament is
really coming through). Additionally, we had to put our Hawaii
vacation plans on hold. We wanted to hop on a plane right after
submitting the manuscript and really enjoy ourselves. Michael was
already dreaming of sleeping through an entire day and letting the
sun shine on his belly. However, he currently has a project running
at AOL, and there is a vacation freeze until the end of July. The
American work life is no bed of roses.

But we haven't let it spoil our good mood, and I quickly booked two weekend
getaways. Next weekend, we are going to a dizzyingly expensive hotel in Napa
Valley (wine region). Since Napa Valley is not only known for its good wines
but also for its world-famous restaurants and spas (which are similar to beauty
salons where you can get massages, manicures, facials, mud baths, etc.), we
will be enjoying wine tastings, great dining, and pampering ourselves with a massage
this weekend. Over the Memorial Day weekend (an American holiday at the end of
May), we will take the so-called Coast Starlight to Oxnard (located in Southern
California). The Coast Starlight is a train that runs along the coast, offering
fantastic views of the ocean. In Oxnard, we will take a boat tour to the
Channel Islands, a group of islands located right off the coast. I am really
curious about how it will be since I have never traveled by train in America.
Michael was initially quite skeptical because he remembered the many train
kilometers he traveled between Munich and Münster, and that was certainly no
relaxation. Well, I will definitely report back to you on how it was. And
Hawaii is, of course, only postponed, not canceled. By the way, the fact that
we're using  every holiday to get away and sometimes spontaneously add a weekend
trip with an overnight stay is very American. This is simply because with
only ten days of vacation, you become inventive.  American holidays are usually
on a Monday, giving you a long weekend.  The downside, of course, is that
everyone hits the road, and it gets a bit crowded everywhere, but you have to
deal with that.

TODO

@Z: The American tax return

<pic images/steuer.ps Angelika prepares the tax return for 1997.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Besides the tedious "book" story, a second not-so-thrilling topic has
demanded quite a few night shifts: namely, filing our American tax
return. First of all, I want to clear up some misconceptions that
seem impossible to eradicate: Firstly, you do pay taxes in America,
and they are not necessarily lower than in Germany. However, it is
true that you pay less in social contributions (pension insurance,
health insurance, unemployment insurance), but it should be
considered what price Americans have to pay for this, namely that
millions are uninsured and that unemployment and pension insurance
are rather a joke, not providing sufficient security in emergencies.
Secondly, filling out the American tax return is at least as
complicated as the German one, contrary to the belief that everything
here is simpler and less bureaucratic. With the forms, you get the
feeling that the designer won the competition on "How to express a
matter as complicated as possible so that no one understands it
anymore" with flying colors. It's really maddening. In these
situations, I was always on the verge of throwing all the tax books
and documents out the window. This year, I had the honorable task of
filling out the documents. Michael had a good excuse because of his
book (Next year, I'll write a book too!). Moreover, he enticed me
with the argument that the daughter of a tax advisor should be able
to handle this with ease and that I am much more conscientious than
he is, etc., etc. I didn't even know what qualities I had. So, I bit
the bullet, read all the tax books, and spent nights brooding over
the forms. You might now want to know why we, as Germans, are paying
taxes in America at all. This is actually a matter that is quite
fairly regulated. If you are in the country for more than 183 days,
you have to tax your worldwide income in America (including Michael's
German book earnings). The same goes for an American living in
Germany for 183 days; they have to tax everything in Germany. This
regulation seems to have been invented by someone with common sense.
You might also wonder why we didn't just have an American tax advisor
do our tax return. We would have loved to, after all, they want to
earn something too. But our German friends who also live here
strongly advised against it because no one understands it anymore
once you say you also earn something in Germany.

It's also funny that every American and Resident Alien (that's what
we're called in bureaucratic American; it reminds me a lot of E.T.,
and often you do feel like an alien from another planet) has to
submit their tax return by April 15th. Since most Americans have
quite a horror of tax returns (I understand that well), many follow
the strategy of postponing this unpleasant topic as long as possible.
So, shortly before the 15th, you see people in the subway filling out
their forms on their knees, many post offices are open until midnight
on the 15th, as are the tax advisor offices. There are often parties
to celebrate the submission of the tax return, and our American
friend Anne told us that on the weekend after the 15th, all the
restaurants are full because people finally have time to go out
again. What's also different here compared to Germany is that you
don't have to send in receipts, and only 5% of tax returns are
audited. 5% is, of course, vanishingly small, and so everyone hopes
that their return won't be audited and that they won't end up in the
so-called "audit." The only problem is, if you do get audited, you're
in for it, as everything is thoroughly checked, and the authorities
can trace back up to three years. The more complicated your tax
situation is, the more likely you are to be audited. So, we have
pretty good chances, which only led Michael to remark: "You have to
experience everything once." Well, I don't know, I can certainly do
without that.

Regarding the issue with the receipts, I've heard some of the most
adventurous stories here. Since it's relatively unlikely to be
audited, many Americans claim deductions for things they don't
actually have receipts for. However, during an audit, you have to
present these receipts. So, people come up with stories that they
lost their receipts in a house fire, or a popular excuse in
California after the big earthquake in 1989 was that everything was
lost due to this natural disaster. It's only embarrassing when people
mix up the dates and claim they have no receipts for things that
happened long after the earthquake, which apparently happened quite
often.

After Michael and I were already firmly convinced that nothing could
surpass the bureaucracy regarding American taxes, the publisher for
whom Michael is writing the aforementioned book sent us a form with
the melodious name "Application for the Issuance of a Certificate of
Exemption for Royalties and Similar Payments under the Double
Taxation Agreement between the Federal Republic of Germany and the
United States of America." This means we have to fill out this form
and send it to the Federal Office of Finance so that we don't have to
pay taxes twice, in both Germany and America. The fact that there is
already an agreement between the two countries that clearly regulates
this situation (see the 183-day rule) seems not to have reached the
relevant authorities, and so they produce unnecessary piles of
paperwork, driving little Angelika and little Michael to the brink of
madness. The ultimate joke is that, of course, you also need a
confirmation from the American tax office proving that we are taxable
here. The friendly German text informs you of this (to understand
which, you need a degree in public administration). After reading it
several times, Michael and I finally understood that we need to fill
out the American form 6166, which you get from the American tax
office. So Michael called there at seven in the evening and actually
reached someone, which is a clear difference from the German
authorities. The friendly lady on the other end of the line then
informed him that this form has not existed for five years, but she
could gladly send us the information sheet on this topic with the
number 686. I probably don't need to mention that in such situations,
one might sometimes feel like biting the telephone receiver out of
frustration. It really makes you wonder whether buzzwords like
"globalization" and "flexibility" can be taken seriously or if it's
really about encouraging people to stay in their own country. Or as
the clerk at the Techniker Krankenkasse so nicely put it when we
moved to America and I wanted to clarify something in this regard:
"You don't have to go abroad!

If you've lost the thread during the whole description and can't see
through it anymore, take comfort in the fact that we felt and feel
the same way.

<pic images/rainbc.ps Again the beautiful rainbow -- well, it was
really beautiful!>

@Z: Social institutions in California

<em>Angelika</em> 
Otherwise, this semester I have come a good deal closer to my goal of
obtaining the continuing education certificate "Children and the
Changing Family" at the University of Berkeley. I took four courses
this semester, so I was and am quite busy with work. I particularly
enjoyed and benefited from two of the courses. One was about
so-called "stepfamilies" and the other about the social services
available in California for families with children. The term
"stepfamily" might sound somewhat negative to German ears, but it
simply means that children from different marriages or relationships
live under one roof because their biological parents have divorced or
separated. Since, as is well known, every second marriage in the USA
ends in divorce, this is a highly relevant topic. The woman who led
the course is a family therapist and herself from a "stepfamily."
Moreover, she has been married four times and has thus raised her own
children and "stepchildren." The course was mainly about learning the
normal phases this new family goes through and how to professionally
support them to make living together easier. In the USA, there is
already a lot of research on this topic, and the course leader is
considered an expert in this regard. What made it so enjoyable was
that this woman was not only an excellent teacher but also conveyed
the topic with a lot of enthusiasm and conviction. Despite the
serious nature of the topic, we laughed a lot, and I retained a lot
that I can take with me for my own work. By the way, I think this
topic is still far too little considered in Germany, after all, the
divorce rates in Germany are not necessarily lower than here.

The course on social services in California provided me with a good
overview of the support available for families in California. What
makes it so difficult to keep track here is that, although there are
federal laws (valid throughout the USA) that regulate general social
assistance programs, each state (e.g., California) and even each
municipality (e.g., San Francisco County) implements its own
programs. Part of the problem is that federal laws only set minimum
requirements, which are not sufficient for many states. This is
especially true for states considered to be more socially oriented.
California is one of these more liberal states. Additionally,
California is a wealthy state and is therefore willing to spend more
on the socially disadvantaged. However, even in California, there are
cuts and savings everywhere, so many effective and preventive
programs are no longer funded. For this course, we had to do very
meaningful "assignments" ("homework"). Since the goal was to learn as
much as possible about the various social institutions, we had to,
for example, gather information about institutions in the
neighborhood where we work or live. Another time, we were given a
case study in which a mother with three children was homeless. We had
to find out what assistance was available for this family in San
Francisco. It was not enough to list various institutions; we had to
call the individual institutions and ask detailed questions, such as
how long the waiting time is to get a place in a homeless shelter.
Initially, I was skeptical that the relevant institutions would even
take the time to answer my questions. However, I had consistently
positive experiences. People were always very enthusiastic that I, as
a foreigner, was taking such a course and patiently answered all
questions. A great learning experience. I then wrote my final paper
on public special education in the USA, which is education for
children who have special educational needs for various reasons
(e.g., children with disabilities and behavioral issues). Since many
of you in Germany work in this field, I want to quickly provide some
information on this. "Special education" in the USA is regulated by a
law from 1975, which is summarized by the principle: "No more special
than necessary." There are various models to support these children.
Some are taught full-time in regular classes and receive additional
therapies (e.g., speech therapy), others are integrated into regular
classes only part-time and receive special instruction in another
classroom with a special education teacher for the rest of the time,
and others receive instruction all day in a special class, which is
still in the regular school building. Finally, there are private
schools for these children, which correspond to our special schools.
Although these schools are private, the law stipulates that the
public sector must finance the costs of educating the respective
children if admission to such an institution is necessary. In
summary, one can say that the goal is integration. Whether a child
receives special education is decided by a multidisciplinary team of
the school authority. The law actually sounds quite promising.
Unfortunately, no one considered who would bear the enormous costs
necessary to properly implement this law. Thus, in practice, the
integration of these children does not look so rosy. There is a lack
of well-trained teachers, and the quality of support again depends
heavily on the individual state.

I am also determined to volunteer again in a special class or
facility, just to gain a better insight. So, enough about my courses.
Just this much: Next semester, I have enrolled in four courses again.
However, this time there is also a photography course included. As
you can see, there's no chance of getting bored. After all, I
continue to go to the childcare facility in the Tenderloin twice a
week.

@Z: Election campaign for the governor's office

<em>Angelika</em> 
Since I touched on the topic of "media" in my last newsletter, I want
to entertain you today with some stories related to it. First of all,
not only is there an election campaign going on in Germany, but a new
governor (something like a prime minister) is also being elected in
California. There are three Democratic candidates in the race and one
Republican (a Republican is from the conservative party; please do
not confuse them with the right-wing Republicans in Germany). Now,
one might think that the Democrats would unite against the Republican
candidate. Wrong. The three Democratic candidates are engaging in
real mudslinging battles on television. The election commercials are
no longer about what political program each candidate has, but only
about the insults one has said about the other. All of this is done
with name-calling, which is not prohibited in America due to freedom
of speech. It's a real circus. It's also alarming that each of the
candidates boasts about being in favor of the death penalty and
wanting to take a tougher stance against criminals. Mind you, I'm
talking about the Democrats, who are generally considered liberal.
Very strange. It's roughly like the Greens suddenly advocating for
lowering gasoline prices.

@Z: Seinfeld comes to an end.

<pic images/seinfeld.ps From our favorite TV show "Seinfeld>

<em>Angelika</em> 
And yet another once-in-a-century event will take place next week in
terms of media: The final episode of our favorite show "Seinfeld"
will be broadcast after nine years of success. Anyone who has visited
us knows what "Seinfeld" is all about, as we have practically forced
all our visitors to watch at least one episode with us. For all the
rest of you, I will now try to explain what makes this show so
appealing:

First of all, the show is an American "sitcom." This is a program
that is broadcast daily for half an hour, always set in the same
environment, usually with the same actors. In other words, something
similar to your "LindenstraÃŸe." A hallmark of "sitcoms," which are
considered funny, is that laughter is played from a tape, which is
totally annoying, but that's another topic. "Seinfeld" is about the
New York comedian Jerry Seinfeld, who plays himself, and his neurotic
friends Elaine, George, and Kramer. The short, stocky, balding George
is a coward and a first-class loser. Kramer always bursts in
unannounced, immediately heads to the fridge, and hates being called
by his first name "Cosmo." Elaine is Jerry's ex-girlfriend and
actively participates in being corrupt. The show is essentially about
nothing and yet about everything. It deals with things from daily
life. There are episodes where the four can't find their parked car
in a parking garage, George has his desk at work modified so he can
sleep better, or they prove that "non-fat" ice cream can't exist.
This all might not sound very exciting, but folks, I'm telling you,
it's hilarious. The humor is so wicked and bitter, it brilliantly and
entertainingly showcases the dark side of people. We particularly
like that the show brutally mocks American society, which might also
explain why Seinfeld wasn't successful in Germany. You only
understand it if you live here. By the way, Seinfeld is so popular
here that people tell the jokes at parties and at work. Usually, just
a keyword is enough, and everyone around bursts into laughter. For
example, if you don't know what "yada-yada-yada" means, you're out.
"Yada-yada-yada" means something like "etc. etc." You even read it in
newspapers here now. In any case, we'll be sitting in front of the TV
on Thursday to watch the last episode. Sniff. You really don't know
what you're missing.

So, enough chatting for now! Michael will write something next time
as well, promise!

So long" is an informal way of saying "goodbye" in English.

The translation of "Angelika und Michael" to English is "Angelika and
Michael.

