San Francisco, 07-04-1998

@Z: New Book

<pic images/1378.ps Michael's latest work, for only DM 69.90 in every good bookstore!>

You dear ones who stayed at home!

<em>Michael</em> 
And here I am again, my dear German friends! Your
humble narrator, who has worked like crazy for the past five months, spent
every weekend on the computer, and during the week in the final phase
managed to get just four hours of sleep per night, has completed his
life's work and finally finished the second edition of his book: In
July, "GoTo Perl 5" will hit the stores, may it delight the readers
and make the cash registers ring!

TODO

@Z: The Joys of Drivers in San Francisco

<em>Michael</em> 
That leaves time to go out again on the weekend! We still don't have
a car, but our friend Peter, who lives five streets away and owns a
Voyager minivan, is currently in Germany. The thing is, you can't
just leave a car parked on the street in San Francisco for a few
weeks: every street is cleaned on a different weekday at a time
indicated by a street sign. If a car is parked on the designated side
of the street during cleaning time, the street sweeper simply goes
around it--that's not the problem--but unfortunately, it's always
accompanied by a ticket officer who mercilessly issues $25 fines! So,
at the moment, we have the honor of constantly moving Peter's car,
and--as a practical side effect--a means of transportation. Last
weekend, we went to the beach at Half Moon Bay, and this weekend to
Point Reyes, which was very nice! Unfortunately, Peter's car has a
flaw: when stuck in traffic, it starts to smoke from the exhaust. You
should know that Americans place great importance on low emissions,
and they had catalytic converters as standard before the word was
even known in Germany. Smelly cars are dealt with swiftly: anyone who
sees one can call a free 1-800 number to "report" the car--the owner
then receives a form from the DMV, where they must check whether a)
they were not at the specified location at the specified time, so
it's obviously a mistake, or b) the car has already been repaired. If
you drive through poor neighborhoods like the "Mission" around the
corner from us, no one cares, as every car smokes, but if you're in
"Tiburon," "Sausalito," or "Palo Alto," where all the suburban snobs
live, you get "reports" constantly--Peter alone has already received
three. It's becoming noticeable to keep checking a)! That's why over
the weekend, we desperately tried to avoid any traffic jams and drove
an extra hundred kilometers just to prevent the car from smoking.
Yes, we're now also considering getting our own car!

<pic images/exhaust.ps The toll-free 1-800 number for reporting
smelly cars.>

I still commute to work by bike and train, and recently, as I was
pedaling up the hill in San Mateo, a delivery van overtook me, and
there was a dull thud that almost startled me! Then I saw that it was
the paperboy, who drives past the bungalows at a speed of 20 km/h,
throwing the daily newspapers, wrapped in plastic covers, into the
driveways every five seconds. Wroom -- Tok! Wrooom -- Tok! Wroom --
Tok! Since Americans don't care about having the newspaper in the
mailbox and aren't bothered if it ends up half under a parked car or
near abandoned children's toys, the paperboy manages an average of 12
newspapers per minute. Clever!

@Z: Hire und Fire" is a German phrase that translates to "hire and
fire" in English. It refers to a management practice where employees
are hired and dismissed quickly based on the company's immediate
needs, often without long-term job security.

<em>Michael</em> 
Here's the translation of the text into English:

"Recently, I also found out how one gets fired at AOL: My cubicle
neighbor JimmiBob got a visit from the HR manager at noon, and
eventually, he had to pack his things into a box under supervision
and take off! Boom! Fired within an hour! Not because of any
particular incident, just a small restructuring in the department,
and the position was redundant! I was very surprised because I had
only heard such stories secondhand. For example, from the company
TRW, where a meeting was called on a Friday afternoon, attended by a
number of security personnel who escorted the employees of an entire
department to their workstations, had them pack their things, and
then led them out of the building. Life is tough! Now, JimmiBob at
AOL wasn't exactly a star performer -- but believe me, I've seen much
bigger slackers in German companies! That's just how it is in America
-- hire and fire, but on the other hand, you can get a new job within
a few days. But no worries -- Michael, the super-hacker, is currently
involved in the company's most important project, soon to be on the
internet!

<pic images/ggsnow.ps A picture from Angelika's photography course --
developed by herself in the darkroom.>

@Z: Wines of California

<em>Michael</em> 
As Angelika already hinted, I also took a course after Angelika has
been going in and out of Berkeley University as if she were at home
there. The course is called "Wines from California and Europe." On
Tuesdays from seven to ten in the evening, the teacher first shares
interesting facts about winemaking, such as where the individual wine
regions are located, until it finally gets down to business and the
students taste five different wines. This is done following a strict
procedure: first, we determine the color ("straw-gold" or
"straw-yellow"?), then the "nose" (white wines usually smell either
of tropical fruit or flowers, red wines of black currants, and in
both cases, there can be "wood" in the "nose," which means you
perceive the barrel wood as an oak wood scent), and finally the
components of taste, the body (weight), acid level, texture, and who
knows what else. Recently, as part of the "fruity wines of Europe," a
German Mosel wine was featured, and when asked about the "nose," a
cheeky American exclaimed, "Horrible, liverwurst!" That made everyone
laugh a lot. By the way, the most expensive wine that has been
featured so far, a French "Sauternes," a delicious dessert wine, cost
a whopping 42 dollars, which is 76 marks per bottle! Fortunately,
that was included in the course fee.

@Z: Laser-Tag

<pic images/lasertag.ps Two tough opponents in laser tag.>

<em>Michael</em> 
After our team had to work quite hard on the new project at the
company, our boss thought it would be a good idea for us to "let off
some steam" and spontaneously invited us to play laser tag. This is
perhaps a rather martial game by German standards (I believe there's
already something like it in Dasing or so). You form two teams of 10
people each, everyone gets a kind of armor strapped on and a laser
gun, which you sling over your shoulder like an Uzi submachine gun,
and then both teams go at each other in a room about 20m by 20m,
which contains a maze of obstacles and fog, all to the sound of
techno music. If you hit an opponent's armor with the laser gun,
which fires a real laser that you can see well in the fog, you get a
point. If you get hit, you lose a point, and a shield activates for
five seconds, with an automated voice blaring from the armor: "Shield
active! Shield active!" This is followed by another five seconds
during which you can't shoot or be protected, so you have to take
cover while the voice crackles: "Warning! Warning!" The whole thing
involves a lot of running and throwing yourself on the ground: after
an hour, we were all completely exhausted and drenched in sweat--and
the muscle soreness the next day was no joke. Of course, after the
game ends, you receive a computer printout listing how many times you
hit each opponent and what rank you held within your team. In one of
the four rounds, I took a lot of hits because I was determined to
destroy the enemy headquarters, and the printout promptly said:
"You're real cannon fodder.

<pic images/foofi.ps The (newsletter-writing) "FooFighter" won this
laser tag round.>

@Z: Arbeiten von zu Hause" translates to "working from home" in
English.

<em>Michael</em> 
In the meantime, I only work three days a week in the office: Monday,
Wednesday, and Friday. On Tuesdays and Thursdays, I get to work from
home; "telecommuting" is the big buzzword, which could best be
translated as "commuting by phone." This saves me a 30-kilometer
commute from San Francisco to San Mateo and is being used by more and
more Americans who work on the phone or computer all day anyway.
Since we have a second phone line (which costs only $15 a month) and
local calls are free here, I can play around on the company's
computer via the internet all day and develop my programs. Once, at
midnight, the date on www.aol.com was incorrect, so I logged into the
super-secure internal network from home and uploaded a corrected
webpage. Considering that this page is viewed by more than 10 million
people, I was a bit nervous, but you get used to everything. If
there's a meeting at the company that I want (or have) to attend, I
dial into a conference call via the other line and can chat with
several people at once, who are either also at home or working in the
office. If you actually sit in a meeting at the company, it's not
unusual for voices of people who are not on-site to come from a
speaker in the conference table. At home, it all looks like this: I
leisurely get up at nine in the morning and initially sit at the
computer unwashed -- much to Angelika's delight -- in my old jogging
pants. Once the first part of the work is done and everything is
running smoothly, I eventually take a leisurely shower and have
breakfast. At lunchtime, I get a burrito from the Mexican place on
Tuesdays and a salami sandwich and sushi from the supermarket on
Thursdays. I casually stroll up 24th Street in shorts, greeting the
shop owners who know us well. In the afternoons, I like to take a
bath in between... my dream would be to participate in a meeting from
the bathtub someday, but unfortunately, we don't have a cordless
phone yet...

@Z: Arbeiten in Amerika" translates to "Working in America" in
English.

<em>Michael</em> 
Recently, AOL had its semi-annual "Performance Review," the
evaluation that determines whether you get a raise or not. I had to
write down what I had done and achieved in the company over the past
six months, in a truly American way, of course, meaning no false
modesty! Then my boss, Tom, had to review the whole thing, add his
comments, and evaluate my performance. I then had to respond to it,
and the whole thing went up one hierarchical level to Gregg, Tom's
boss (in the company, everyone calls each other by their first name,
and even if Steve Case, the boss of AOL, were to drop by, it would
simply be "Steve"). I did quite well, but the funny thing about their
comments was that the only negative point they mentioned was that I
was often a bit blunt and sarcastic in my emails, which is not
customary here in America. If something doesn't work, you don't say,
"Why the hell isn't this working?" but rather, "Great! Just one
little thing: It would be suuu-per if it worked too!" By now, I've
become much more moderate; an important American principle is to
always highlight the positive aspect of a situation and mention the
negative in passing, so as not to discourage people! This is also why
schools are sparing with bad grades, and even those who only manage
to get a high school diploma (which is like a comprehensive school)
already get a graduation cap. An American would never say, "I can't
do it," they would try in any case, and I do think that's a
significant part of the economic success here in Silicon Valley.
Especially in the software industry, things sometimes seem endlessly
difficult when you tackle them. Oh dear! That's what the guy at
Siemens would say and abandon the project, but the developer here
happily dives in and casually tries all sorts of things--and
eventually, it works out. Not right away, but after all, delivery
dates can be postponed.

An important American principle that people in Germany should not
hesitate to consider is that holidays falling on the weekend are not
simply lost, no, no! When Germans are once again annoyed that May 1st
falls on a Sunday, Americans can only laugh about it -- if the
American national holiday, July 4th, falls on a Saturday, then Friday
is a day off. Hooray! Holidays are, of course, primarily used for
shopping -- when else do you really have time? The stores are, of
course, open all day and lure people in with super bargain offers --
and they send out flyers for proper preparation until the mailbox is
overflowing.

@Z: Belohnungsreisen

<em>Michael</em> 
To ceremoniously end the book stress, Angelika had planned two trips
for us: First, with a rental car to Napa Valley, where we visited
some wine producers that were still unknown to us during the day
(there aren't many left, as we already know most of them) and checked
into a small, cozy hotel with an open fireplace in the room. In the
evening, we went to "Terra," one of the best restaurants on this
planet: a kind of Californian cuisine with an Asian twist. The salmon
marinated in sake (Japanese rice wine) was so good that I almost fell
off my chair, and the dessert, strawberries in Sauvignon Blanc, was
certainly one of the top three dishes of my life. We added a bottle
of wine from the excellent Hess Collection, and although the credit
card winced in pain, the evening was truly an experience.

The second reward trip went to the Los Angeles area: not by car, but
by the Amtrak train "Starlight Express," which runs from Seattle to
San Diego along the west coast of the USA and therefore also passes
by Big Sur, south of San Francisco.

<pic images/amstat.ps At the train station in Oakland, where the
Amtrak train from Seattle to Los Angeles passes through.>

Train travel is completely unpopular in America -- those who want to
travel prefer to take a plane due to the large distances. At Amtrak,
a conductor approaches you on the platform, shows you where you can
board, and another places a small bridge at the entrance so you don't
injure yourself on the 20cm high step. The seats in "Coach" (standard
train car) are significantly wider than the first-class seats we have
and are spaced so far apart that you can comfortably stretch out your
legs, completely! Of course, there are dining cars and, as a special
feature, an observation car where the seats are not facing forward
but towards the floor-to-ceiling windows. There, with a bottle of
wine again, we spent several hours just watching as the Pacific waves
crashed against the cliffs.

<pic images/traincoast.ps The Amtrak winds along the coast. On board:
Angelika and Michael.>

Upon arriving in Oxnard (near L.A.), we spent the night at a motel
and the next day we crossed over to the Channel Islands, offshore
islands that are completely uninhabited and where you can enjoy
hiking. We were brought ashore from the ship with a dinghy.

<pic images/channel.ps Abandoned with the inflatable boat on the
Channel Islands>

The boat tour there takes just 2 hours, and we saw a Fin whale that
was surely 10 meters long and dozens of cute dolphins that swam
alongside the boat and jumped around in the bow waves. The next day,
we took the Amtrak back -- after all, it was just a weekend. With the
ten days of vacation per year that you get here in America, we have
to be frugal.

<pic images/amgirl.ps Photographed from a moving train at a station
along the route>

After Angelika is "totally" stressed out because of her many courses,
she can't contribute anything this time! The fine lady has even taken
a photography course with darkroom experience at Berkeley University
and has already developed her first black-and-white film.

With her eyes closed, she practiced at home over and over again how
to open the film canister and load the exposed film onto a developing
reel, because in the darkroom, there's no light for this task. At the
university, she is now allowed to use a lab and work with chemicals
as long as the course lasts, until finally the first black-and-white
prints are produced. Of course, it's not entirely without risk: the
other day, she ended up with a bump on her head because she ran into
a wall in the dark, hahaaaa... In the meantime, the first prints are
already finished, and they turned out really well, yes indeed, the
lady photographer, soon to be seen in the Ansel Adams Museum...
That's it for today! Take care! Keep in touch!

The translation of "Angelika und Michael" to English is "Angelika and
Michael.

