San Francisco, 10-15-98

Hello, loved ones!

<em>Angelika</em> Now that I've crawled out of my darkroom (my
photography course is finished), you're finally hearing from me again. As
Michael already reported in his last newsletter, the photography course
inspired me so much that I spent hours and hours in the darkroom and had no time for
anything else. Of course, I immediately registered for a follow-up course. In
the coming semester, I will be taking two more courses as part of the certificate
program "Children and the Changing Family". These courses are mandatory; if I
successfully complete them, I will have a certificate in my pocket. Hurray!!!

<pic images/tender.ps My photography class: Two children from Angelika's group, self-photographed and developed in the darkroom in black and white.>

<pic images/tend.ps My photography class: Child in Kindergarten>

@Z: Social work in the Tenderloin

Many people have recently asked what's going on with my work in the "Tenderloin
Childcare Center". I'm still going twice a week, often even three times, when
additional help is needed for trips or parties. I have been doing this for
exactly one year so far.

The graduation ceremony with diploma
award for the children in my group was celebrated in mid-August. "Graduation"
because all the children in my group are moving on to kindergarten. Maybe you
are wondering now: "Why kindergarten, we thought they were already in
kindergarten?" You've got to know that although the German word "Kindergarten" is
used in America, something completely different is meant by it. In Germany, we
usually refer to the time from three years old to school entry as "Kindergarten
time". Most children go to the same facility during this time, their
kindergarten. In America, only the last year before school is referred to as
"kindergarten".

Most kindergarten classes are already in the building of the elementary school.
In America, kids usually enter school at 6 years of age. It is a common
practice for kindergarten children to learn letters, numbers, etc. All
facilities that the children visit before this American kindergarten time are
either referred to as "Preschool" ("Preschool") or generally as "Childcare
Center" or "Day Care Center".  Confused? Don't worry, it took me quite a while
to understand the differences.

Now you may be wondering why there is a graduation ceremony with diploma award
for such small children. Are Americans totally crazy? Now to their honor,
it should be said that normally such "graduation parties" only take place after
successful completion of high school, college or university. These are then the
typical parties that are often seen in American television programs. Each
graduate has a gown in the colors of the school or university and a doctor's
hat in the same color. Speeches are held, parents and other relatives sit with
teary eyes in the audience and finally each graduate is called to the stage and
his or her diploma is ceremoniously presented.

That's how the party went in the
Tenderloin as well. The children had red robes and a red doctor's hat and got a
certificate stating that they had successfully completed preschool. The
question remains why such a fuss for such small children, couldn't there have
been a nice graduation party from which the children themselves might have benefitted
more? Many facilities like the "Tenderloin Childcare Center", for which I volunteer, now hold such
highly official "graduation parties" because they say that most parents are
dropouts and have never experienced their own party. Therefore, they should
experience the positive experience of a "graduation" as often as possible
through their children. I still have mixed feelings about this thought and
can't really decide how I feel about this idea. It was interesting anyway.

<pic images/teranica.ps A kid from the Tenderloin Childcare Center at graduation>

<pic images/grad.ps Graduation ceremony at the kindergarten>

It was funny that each of us volunteers also received
a certificate (although we had no robes). Chris (also a volunteer) and I were named
the "volunteers of the year" due to our special commitment and engagement for
the institution. We both received a book gift voucher and were particularly
highlighted at the celebration, which honestly made me very happy. Maybe there
is something to these celebrations after all.

I am still working with the older children (on average 4-5 years old) in the
same group room now. I already know most of the children because they simply
moved up from the neighboring group. The educator teams have also been newly
composed for various reasons.  Samantha, with whom I get along particularly
well, is fortunately still in the group I come to volunteer in.

@Z: Weekend Getaway in Shelter Cove

<pic images/scove1.ps The black sand of the "Lost coast">

<em>Angelika</em>
Last weekend we had a holiday here, the so-called "Labor Day"
("Day of Work"), on which Michael also had a day off. So we immediately rented a car
to take advantage of the extended weekend. We drove to the "Lost Coast". 
As the name suggests, this is not exactly the coastal section where
the crowds gather and that's why we went there. The "Lost Coast" is located in
the far north of California. That's where they couldn't build Highway 1 (Coast
Dream Road) back then because the terrain was too rugged and the weather
conditions too harsh. Fortunately, later, when technically there was nothing in
the way of building the road, there were already nature conservationists who
knew how to prevent it.

The only larger place on this stretch of coast with the
name "Shelter Cove" can only be reached via a 25-mile very winding (it goes
over the mountains) road with quite a few potholes, which takes about an hour
(turbo drivers and mountain rat Michael of course managed it a bit faster).
Arriving in Shelter Cove you feel immediately like in a completely different,
very un-American world: No McDonalds, no bank, no gas station, the locals
with their sun-tanned skin all look like fishermen and you have the impression
that everyone meets in the evening in the only pub of the place, where nobody
cares that smoking in pubs has been banned in California since the beginning of
the year.

As I said, this place is close to the end of the world, where its own laws apply
(Günter, for old smokers like you this would have been paradise). In front of the
pub, the fishermen take out the freshly caught fish and above them the seagulls
circle and make a deafening noise. All around, the ocean rages as far as the eye
can see, there are vast cliffs and a long beach with black sand, which is quite unique for California
and has led me to torment myself with the question all weekend why the sand
suddenly turns black, one of those questions that can be approached both
scientifically and philosophically. Well, I couldn't answer this question
satisfactorily, but you can see that the landscape invited to stare at the sea
and ponder for hours.

<pic images/scove2.ps Our footprints in the black sand>

It would have all been wonderful, had the pitfalls of civilization not caught
up with us on our arrival day. Our rental car had a flat tire, there was a nail
in it, and it was hissing terribly, and in no time the tire was flat. Of
course, it's clear that such misfortune only happens when you're at the end of
the world without a gas station or auto repair shop, and it's a holy holiday in
America, and the car insurance doesn't cover tire damage. Fortunately, Ed's Gas
Station (long live the American service economy) had mercy on us. After we put
on the spare tire, a spare wheel that was much smaller than the actual tire,
and drove the 25 miles over the hill to the nearest town (this time slowly and
decently), Ed himself patched the tire. Ed could have also played a gangster in
a John Wayne western, the cigarette (remember, we're at a gas station where
smoking is strictly forbidden due to the risk of explosion!) casually in the
corner of his mouth, he quickly repaired the tire and only charged us 12
dollars (surely in cash) and saved our weekend.

Next weekend we'll be going on another trip. Michael was finally able to take a
week off, eating into his 14-day annual vacation grant (you remember,
previously he had a vacation stop due to a project) and we'll be heading to
Hawaii. This time we are going to the island of "Molokai", which is said to be
the least touristy and most original.  We will report back in the next
newsletter to tell you how it was!

@Z: At the Nail Salon

<em>Angelika</em>
Incidentally, I recently had the absolute Seinfeld experience (if you don't
know what "Seinfeld" is, just look in my last newsletter). To understand the
joke, I have to explain a bit more. First of all, you have to know that there
are countless so-called nail shops in America, where you can have your hands
and feet cared for. Of course, you can also have your fingernails and toenails
painted with nail polish. In our neighborhood alone there are four to five of
these nail shops. Whenever we pass by, Michael always bursts out laughing
because the people who get their nails painted look like they're in a shop
window, which means that everyone who passes by can look at the well-formed or
less well-formed feet and hands of the customers.

It should also be noted that it is completely okay in America to clean or cut
your nails in public. So you often see people in the subway calmly working on
their nails. In any case, Michael has been annoying me for months to get my
fingernails painted red in such a shop. He would also come by with the camera
and take a picture of me in the window. You have to know further that most of
these nail shops are run by Asian women. That's exactly what the mentioned
Seinfeld episode is about. The Elaine character in the show always goes to get
a manicure in a nail shop run by Koreans and has the feeling that they are
gossiping about her in Korean, which she of course doesn't understand. To get
clarity about this, she takes George's father as a spy to the manicure the next
time, because he speaks and understands Korean as an old Korean War veteran. Of
course it turns out that they are indeed gossiping about her.

Recently, my friend Sylvia and I were also in such a nail shop and we suddenly
had this strange feeling that we were being heavily criticized. The ladies who
were working on our feet and hands were throwing comments at each other and
rolling their eyes in our direction. Despite this gossip, I finally came home
with red-painted fingernails and purple toenails. Michael's horrified face was
really worth it. But don't worry, otherwise I'm still the same.

@Z: Another earthquake!
 
<em>Angelika</em>
A few weeks ago, we were once again rudely awakened by an earthquake of
magnitude 5.4. I'm telling you, it was shaking quite a bit. Fortunately, the epicenter was
quite far inland, so there was no damage here in San Francisco. The problem was that Michael's
computer-accessible earthquake map didn't show the earthquake, and Michael was
now firmly convinced that there had been no earthquake at all. He was not
dissuaded from his opinion by the fact that our friend Günter, who was visiting
from Switzerland at the time, and I had felt the earthquake quite clearly.
Later, to Günter's and my honor, it turned out that the map hadn't shown the
earthquake because of the map's limited range. The map only shows the immediate
area, and the epicenter was, as I said, much further inland. Günter was of
course deeply delighted with such adventures being offered to our guests. It only scared
him a little because two days earlier we had been to the museum, where an
earthquake exhibition was taking place, in which a new room had been built
especially for visitors to stand on a moving plate that simulated the strength of the 1989
earthquake. Günter commented later that he could have saved the museum entrance
fee.

Many of you keep asking when we will come to visit Germany again. I have
planned a visit for early 1999. Unfortunately, Michael won't be able to
accompany me (you know only 14 days of vacation, so he's being stingy). Anyway,
now Michael wants to write something too.....
   
@Z: Swabians in San Francisco

<em>Michael</em> Hello there, finally it's my turn with some funny stories!
When we recently hailed a taxi in the city late at night to ride home, we got
into a conversation with the driver, a "long-haired" individual, who
immediately recognized that we were speaking German and then told us that he
had been stationed in Germany for a few years with the US Army. Now this is
nothing unusual -- you can find a lot of Americans here who have been in the
Army at some point, and many of them have been in Germany during their service.
There's no mandatory service here like in Germany, so the US Army is made up of
professional soldiers, and there is no shortage of recruits. A job in the Army
often a lifeline for many unemployed youth -- they'd rather be whipped by the
drill sergeant than go begging on the street -- unfortunately, there are no
other alternatives due to the lack of a social system.

And it is also socially accepted: I had laughed my head off in the movie theater when Michelle
Pfeiffer wrote "I am a US Marine" on the board of an undisciplined class and
everyone suddenly became reverently silent. And I can still get a giggle out of
"Top Gun", but here people really take this nonsense seriously. Even during the
Gulf War, according to reliable sources, every suburban bungalow owner had a US
flag in their garden. But I'm digressing! So the taxi driver was telling us his
experiences from Germany, yes, he had been stationed in Swabia, in Stuttgart,
where the dialect is so terrible, so he had once been at the train station and
an announcement was made about a track change: GLAIS OINZ! the train was
leaving from GLAIS OINZ!, and he had to ask a conductor -- although he was
somewhat proficient in German, but not in the Swabian dialect -- what GLAIS
OINZ! meant. The taxi driver kept shouting GLAIS OINZ! and GLAIS OINZ! again
and again and we couldn't stop laughing in the back seat. He completely forgot
to turn on the meter, only towards the end of the ride did he remember, but
instead of the indicated $5.00, I gave him $15.00 out of joy.

By the way, here's a message for you stone age people: I finally did it, I got
my own domain on the internet - at http://perlmeister.com there's not only
boring computer stuff but also some pages that show where we live, what we do.
At the computer supermarket Fry's, I bought a scanner for $59.95, so our photos
can get into the computer and onto the page - if you have a computer with an
internet connection, just take a look ...

@Z: Shark Alert at Stinson Beach

<pic images/shark.ps Warning at Stinson Beach>

<em>Michael</em> A few weeks ago, there was great excitement at Stinson Beach,
a few kilometers north of San Francisco: at this popular destination, a wave
surfer was bitten in the, ahem, posterior by a white shark. The authorities
immediately issued a ban on swimming and surfing, which led to sharp protests
from the surfers who saw their constitutionally guaranteed right being
restricted - but when the shark finally stayed away for weeks, the prohibition
sign was removed and now they are surfing again!

@Z: The Lewinsky Affair

<em>Michael</em> As you all have surely heard, things are getting tough for
President Bill Clinton here in America, who had an affair with an intern in the
White House and denied it in a statement before the so-called "Grand Jury"
under oath. Now, however, the intern has made a detailed statement and
described in minute detail what interesting things happened there. The whole
procedure was secret and a certain Ken Starr had the task of writing down the
statements and findings in an even more secret report.

Now, Congress, the US lawmaking body with elected officials, has surprisingly decided
to make this report available to the public - not in a newspaper, but, because
we don't live on the moon: on the Internet! You can imagine that AOL was going
crazy. On the day before the planned publication, teams were assembled who, as
soon as the report appeared, would type it out, convert it into a suitable
format and put it on the AOL internet page. The MyNews software (which your
beloved narrator designed and wrote), which displays the news on the AOL page,
unfortunately still had (fortunately not in my part) one error, which the guys were
hunting down until four in the morning and finally could fix. In the early
afternoon, then, events came in like wildfire: The media representatives, including
one from AOL, were able to convince the government to release the report in
electronic format right away, and we made it appear on the web page
within a few minutes. Immediately the onslaught on our servers began, millions
reading the report, and could hardly believe it: There it was, describing in detail,
how the president and the intern had fun, and prudish
Americans almost fell out of their chairs. Immediately an additional web page was set up,
which pointed out that the report was not suitable for children and gave advice
to parents on how to tell their offspring about the event. Over the weekend I then
evaluated the data and counted how many people clicked on which pages -
madness!

So, that's enough for today! To finish off, here's a photo of the two of your
expats at Angel Island, the island in the San Francisco Bay that we visited
on a Sunday by ship. The fog was still over the bay, but the skyscrapers of San
Francisco were already visible.

<pic images/treas.ps On Angel Island -- in the background fog and the skyline of San Francisco.>

Until next time!

Angelika and Michael
