San Francisco, 11-20-1998

Dear People Back Home,

<em>Michael</em> Since Angelika is busy with her UC Berkeley courses, I, your
dear Michael, have to write this newsletter all by myself again. For Christmas,
the busy lady has promised more. I will, of course, take this opportunity to
write the newsletter entirely on my own—I emphasize: entirely on my own!—to
indoctrinate the whole world with my computer nonsense. Anyone who can't handle
it will have to throw the letter away or turn off the computer. Now!

@Z: Vacation on Molokai/Hawaii

<pic images/molokai3.ps The plane to Molokai>

<em>Michael</em>
We spent half of this year's annual vacation (one week) on the small island of
Molokai in the Hawaiian archipelago. Hawaii is convenient for us because, even
though it lies in the middle of the Pacific Ocean, it is still a U.S. state, so
we can fly there with an American driver's license without any visa hassle.
With our special visa, which was adjusted for the company switch from Blaxxun
to AOL, we would have to jump through numerous bureaucratic hoops if we wanted
to leave the country. Hawaii, therefore, was a domestic option.

On Molokai, there are about two restaurants, two hotels, and a leper colony. We
spent a lot of time walking along the kilometers-long sandy beaches and
retreated to a bar each evening at sunset to sip a cocktail. The great thing
about Hawaii is that the climate is ideal: it is warm but never scorching hot,
as there is always a gentle breeze. It rains for five minutes and then the sun
shines again for five hours. It's so wonderful that once you've been there, you
always long to go back.

The journey there was somewhat adventurous: since only a handful of tourists
arrive in Molokai each day, no Boeing 747 flies there from Honolulu (on the
main island of Hawaii, Oahu), but rather a twin-engine propeller plane from the
Second World War or something similar.

We sat right behind the pilot and could look out through the front windshield.
We were amazed to find that such a small plane doesn't need a long runway to
take off; the pilot just pushes the throttle forward briefly, and after 20
meters, the plane zooms into the sky.

<pic images/molokai2.ps Propeller in front and a Hawaiian island below>

But the landing, oh dear! Since a fresh warm wind constantly blows over the
Hawaiian islands, the little plane rocked quite a bit, and the pilot—as we
could see live—struggled quite a bit with his controls to bring the craft
safely back to the ground. It felt like being in a flight simulator with Günter
Speckhofer at the controls; the runway in the front window was bobbing wildly
back and forth. But eventually, the plane landed safely.

<pic images/molokai1.ps Landing in Molokai as seen from the cockpit>

"Sorry 'bout the bumps," said the pilot as we rolled to a stop. We, of course,
responded that it didn't bother us at all; we'd been on far worse flights. In
fact, I still shudder at the memory of when I once had to fly to Düsseldorf in
a Cessna with the boss of a company I had the honor of working for, with the
old gentleman at the controls, who was known to sometimes suffer from nervous
twitches. The co-pilot at that time was Günter Wille, the head of Dallmayer in
Munich, and little Michael sat two seats back, pale as a ghost. Fortunately,
everything went well.  But I digress!

After landing at the airport, which was smaller than the Oberhausen train
station in Augsburg (for those who don't know: "smaller than Windthorststraße
in Oldenburg"), we sought out the car rental office. A friendly older gentleman
in shorts explained the rental agreement to us at his own leisurely pace, as he
was unfamiliar with any sense of urgency, processing perhaps two tourists per
day. Every tourist on Molokai receives a silver Dodge Neon as their rental car.

There are about fifty cars on the island, and ten of them are silver Dodge
Neons. In the evenings, when you pass by one of the two restaurants, three
Dodge Neons are parked outside. Sometimes you return to the parking lot and
can’t remember which silver Dodge Neon is yours, so you have to try the key in
each one to find the right car.

The mention of the leper colony was not a joke. In fact, about half a century
ago, Molokai had a leper colony where all those suffering from leprosy were
taken because of the fear of contagion and the lack of a known cure. Today,
there are medical treatments for leprosy, but some people still live in the
colony, not because they have to, but because they choose to stay there. The
path to the colony is a giant staircase that descends about a thousand meters
from a mountain into a remote valley. Visitors usually take a mule (a cross
between a donkey and a horse) and ride down with a tour guide. However, you can
also walk down, which we did. Once at the bottom, we were taken around the
colony by bus by a former leprosy patient.

On the way back up, we started long before the mules, but Angelika began to
struggle with heavy breathing halfway up, so we had to slow down and let the
mules pass us. Never have I been more embarrassed. Oh well!

Regarding water and weather: After nearly getting knocked over by a wave during
my last visit to Hawaii, your esteemed narrator stayed away from surfboards
this time. Instead, we indulged in the hobby of photographing how the locals
get tossed around in the waves.

<pic images/surfer.ps The locals getting tossed off their boards, haha!>

Instead of surfing, we just swam in the pleasantly warm water. The water in
Hawaii maintains a temperature of around 25 degrees Celsius year-round, which
is perfect for splashing around. It's really pleasant, unlike San Francisco,
where you can't swim because the water is only 13 degrees even when it's warm.

The waves in Hawaii, however, can crash in brutally; they're fast, three to
four meters high, and you have to be extremely careful on the beach to avoid
being pulled in by the undertow. The nice thing about the long beaches of
Molokai is that you might meet only two people over five kilometers—it's that
secluded. We also explored a corner where driftwood from all over the world had
washed ashore. Among the debris were many bottles (though none with messages)
and loose buoys.

The photo below shows me bravely holding a crab I found. Uaaaah!

<pic images/krebs.ps I’m holding a crab in my hand, shudder, shudder!>

On the day we returned to the main island, there was a rowing race taking
place. Traditionally, once a year, women paddle canoes from Molokai to Oahu. If
you row well, it takes about six hours. The canoes set off at dawn, and a
little later, we took off in our small plane to head to the main island as
well, where the bomber back to the mainland USA was departing.

After a while, we could see the boats, and the pilot, apparently unbound by
general aviation laws in Hawaii, deviated from his flight path, dipped down to
the canoes, circled them a few times to the cheers of the passengers, and then
continued on to Oahu. As a reward, he received a T-shirt with the race motif
from a passenger who was apparently a race official, after we landed.

@Z: Ordering a New Computer Off the Internet

<em>Michael</em> After my good old 486 computer, imported from Germany
(sponsored by Mom!), has now become outdated after four years (four Internet
years equate to forty human years), I finally decided to buy a new one, hooray!
For those interested, here are the specs: 400 MHz Pentium II, 96 MB RAM, 17 GB
hard drive, 17'' Trinitron monitor, 56 Kbps modem.

My good old computer will spend its retirement in the bedroom, where Angelika
can now surf the Internet undisturbed. She has always complained that she never
gets a chance to use the computer because of my constant typing!

Of course, in the Internet age, you don't just buy a new computer in a store.
Instead, you go online, find a manufacturer, select the components, and
instantly see how much the whole thing will cost. Then, you enter your credit
card number and—bam!—a week later, a huge package arrives by mail, and the fun
can begin!

This method even saves money because, as tourists in California painfully
learn, you have to pay an additional 8.5% sales tax (a kind of VAT) on top of
the listed price. However, when ordering online and shipping to another state,
you are exempt from this tax. So, I simply ordered the stuff from Dallas,
Texas, and it was flown to San Francisco without any problem! Many people do
this, and politicians in Washington have considered imposing a flat internet
tax. However, since everyone here in the U.S. sees the internet as the best
communication tool and economic booster of all time (rightly so!), they decided
to postpone the idea for a few years to avoid artificially slowing down the
current development, which can only be described as an "explosion!"

With the new setup, we can now watch the German "Tagesschau" every day: the
technology called RealVideo allows us to watch TV broadcasts over the Internet.
The picture is only a few centimeters in size and a bit shaky, but you can see
everything necessary and the sound is flawless. Due to the time difference, the
8:00 PM Tagesschau airs here at 11:00 AM—if that’s not progress, I don’t know
what is!

@Z: Book Prices in the USA

<em>Michael</em> By the way, we also order our books online—whenever we're
interested in a book, Amazon, a book retailer, offers all books 20% cheaper on
the Internet. You order using your credit card number, and Amazon usually ships
the goods via UPS. You get a so-called tracking number, which allows you to
track the package's location at any time—again, on the Internet. Recently, I
ordered something and saw that it was loaded onto a truck in Florida. Then it
disappeared from the tracking system for three days; I was about to call UPS
when it reappeared at a large distribution center near San Francisco. The fools
had driven it across the entire country by truck!

In Germany, there's currently a debate about the fixed book pricing. The fact
is that in Germany, no bookseller is allowed to offer a book for 17.95 DM if
the price is listed as 19.95 DM; everyone has to sell it at the same price.
Even if a supermarket wanted to make a special offer, they wouldn't be allowed
to (except for clearance sales of old stock). Here in the U.S., it's different;
the free market rules, and anyone can sell books as cheaply as they want. This,
of course, means that the large bookstore chains dominate the market, and the
small bookseller around the corner can't compete. Additionally, these chains
only stock the books that sell well, namely bestsellers. Alternative books from
small publishers don't stand a chance; they never make it to the shelves. As a
result, the book selection here is quite monotonous, and you rarely see
anything truly new or interesting.

Your dear author, however, writes for a major publisher, and naturally, his
book, which will be released in English in January, will be on all the shelves,
uaaaahh... Details can be found on my website http://perlmeister.com. For those
without a computer, you can also get the information by putting your washing
machine on spin cycle and staring into the rotating drum for a while.

@Z: Buying a Car in the USA

<em>Michael</em> Another interesting market is the car market. We still haven't
found a car—we're hesitant to visit a dealer because it's well-known that
they're all crooks who will rip you off. We're looking to buy a cheap used
Japanese car and have already read a few books on the subject. They say you
should never pay the listed price but always negotiate first. If the seller
doesn't accept, which is usually the case, you must resolutely walk out of the
store. But, as the guidebook said, you can bet that a flailing salesman will
come running after you, assuring you that you can indeed discuss the price
further. You should only go back with him if he solemnly promises to consider
your offer, which he usually does, and then the bargaining resumes in the
showroom. For every little thing, there are additional fees (registration and
incomprehensible individual charges), and then you have to start arguing again,
continue negotiating, and finally settle on a reasonable price.

As you can see, this process requires a lot of time and patience, but we'll
manage to get a car eventually.

@Z: All-Hands Meeting at AOL

<em>(Michael)</em> On November 12, America Online held its All-Hands Meeting.
Here's how it goes: around 5000 employees who work at the headquarters in
Dulles, Virginia, and the surrounding area gather in a sports hall (not all of
them, customer service is maintained), and the top guru, Steve Case, announces
the new direction. Employees from branches in Columbus, Ohio; Chicago,
Illinois; many other locations; and finally, San Mateo (where your narrator was
present) gathered in local hotels where the show was broadcast live via
satellite on a giant screen. These annual general meetings are put on as a
total show, quite unlike the usual German practices!

It starts with a video, hardcore heavy metal music (Metallica): "Fuel, Fire,
Desire!" You see Steve Case, the company boss, behind a stack of envelopes and
brochures, seemingly busy stuffing the latest AOL disks into envelopes and
getting them ready to send out—until his secretary reminds him that the general
meeting is about to start. Case then puts on his fireproof racing suit, dons
his helmet, takes the elevator down from his office to the lobby, salutes the
AOL motto engraved in the wall, and steps outside where a race car is waiting
for him. He squeezes in, starts the engine, and takes off with smoking tires.
The AOL doorman watches in amazement as the car speeds through the gate. "Fuel,
Fire, Desire!" Pow! Pow! Pow! The Metallica song pounds as Big Steve races down
the highway toward the general meeting. Eventually, the race car arrives at the
sports hall—and ten seconds later, the live broadcast kicks in: Steve Case
jumps onto the stage in his racing suit, the cheering is immense, it feels more
like a pop star than a company boss. He quickly changes into jeans, sneakers,
and an unbuttoned shirt, as he's known. It's important to note that this man
owns several billion dollars. He delivers a TV-worthy speech; the show rolls on
for an hour and a half. Bob Pitman, the Chief Operating Officer, comes in
wearing a leather jacket and sunglasses—now that's a general meeting I can get
behind!

@Z: To Napa Valley on the Weekend

<em>(Michael)</em>
Since, as you all surely know, November 12 is also my
birthday, and I was somewhat, uh, tied up at the company, I took the next day
off. Angelika and I went to Wine Country for the extended weekend, stayed at a
charming bed-and-breakfast, and spent our days visiting all the local wineries,
sampling an estimated 30 wines in two days.

For now, I can't look at another glass of wine, but we did stock up on some
fine bottles.

Okay, my dear ones, that's it again from your USA vacationers! It would be nice
to hear from you as well; here in exile, it's always a joyous day when news
from distant lands trickles in. Take care, write lots!

Angelika \& Michael
