San Francisco, 01-15-1999

Dear ones who stayed at home,

And once again, it's time to say: Welcome to the news from the new world! Your
tireless adventurers Angelika and Michael are serving up diligently collected
stories from everyday American life -- enjoy reading!

@Z: German food in the USA

<em>Michael</em> When it comes to traditional German food, we haven't
suffered any shortage so far, as there are two German stores just two streets
away from our apartment. One of them offers German beer mugs, beauty products (Fa
shower gel, unfortunately no Cliff), and during Christmas time, nutcrackers and
Santa Clauses. The other store, which is connected to the restaurant
"Speckmann's," carries all sorts of German beers, potato salad, frozen
pretzels, sauerkraut, white sausages, Händlmaier mustard (by the way, the
package says "Händelmaier's," is it the same in Germany, can someone verify
that?) and Vienna sausages, which are called "German Franks" there.

Anyone who
has been to the USA knows that such places only appear every 2000 kilometers!
About every two months, a magical force draws me into the store, and the
Austrian grandma there has to give me "German Franks," mustard, and pretzels.
Recently, I gave her a 20-dollar bill, and she gave me change: "Zwööfe, droizähne, vierzähne, funfzähne, 
zwonsgte!" The bread problem, traditionally a tricky
topic in the USA because Americans tend to prefer it soft and sweet rather than
crusty and sour, doesn't arise in our neighborhood, as there is a rich
selection of Italian, French, and yes, even German bread available. However,
when we recently visited a place that had long been on our wish list, the
"Suppenküche" at the corner of Laguna/Hayes Street, I was finally able to
enjoy a beef roulade with two mugs of Franziskaner wheat beer after more than
two years, it was incredible! With homemade spaetzle and red cabbage - it was
amazing, oh homeland, oh homeland! The place quickly filled up, was packed by
eight, and people clearly enjoyed drinking beer from liter mugs and even
larger "boots." And this in San Francisco! Besides Spaten/Franziskaner, there
were also Paulaner and Hacker-Pschorr beers available. Spaten had to find other
distribution channels because no one drinks it in Munich due to its reputation
for causing headaches, and it has actually established a foothold
here -- every third pub serves it. And I've actually been living for over
two years without Augustiner Edelstoff! Who will bring me someee ... :) ?

@Z: At AOL Headquarters

<pic images/aol.ps The headquarters of AOL -- in Dulles, Virginia>

<em>Michael</em> In the second week of December, I had the honor of visiting
the headquarters of AOL in Dulles, Virginia (very close to the capital of the
USA, Washington D.C.) to give a two-day course on a programming language (for
the experts among you: Tcl) for the folks there. Since Virginia is on the East
Coast and we live on the West Coast of America, I had to set off on a Sunday
morning, sit on a plane for five hours, rent a car, and navigate through a maze
of highways to find the hotel and AOL. Not so easy, since my chief navigator
Angelika wasn't with me. So, I arrived at Washington airport at 9 PM, rented a
car, and (who would have thought?) promptly got lost. Anyone familiar with the
Washington area knows that one highway leads into another and that once you
miss an exit, there's no turning back because you have to go through three
interchanges before you can take the next exit and turn around. I managed to
pass the same toll booth twice, luckily it only cost 25 cents each time. There
were large funnels set up there, into which you could toss the appropriate coin
with a big swing and half out of the car window while driving, super cool!
Fortunately, I had enough coins with me.

Then, of course, there was the three-hour time difference to overcome, so that,
calculated by San Francisco time, I got up at 3 AM and started the lecture at 6
-- but in the end, I managed to chatter almost non-stop for an average of six
hours a day and tell funny stories from the life of a web engineer. Americans
expect much more than anyone else that a course is primarily "fun." Since it
took them no more than three seconds to realize from my accent that I'm not
American, I immediately told them where I'm from, and from then on everything
went smoothly, and the people actually enjoyed it. Maybe one day I'll become a
great speaker after all, anything is possible!

@Z: The German accent when speaking English

<em>(Michael)</em> The thing with the German accent is something I constantly
work on, but there's no end in sight: Someone who has spoken German their whole
life probably can never sound 100% like an American or English person. It's
like when an American speaks fluent German, but you can still tell from the
"r"s and "w"s that the Anglo-American world pronounces letters slightly
differently than the German-speaking world. To avoid any misunderstandings: I
don't speak like Helmut Kohl or use grammatically incorrect English, and I
choose the words to express what I mean according to the local context as much
as I can. For example, in America, people often say things you wouldn't learn
in any English course in the world, like "I'm gonna do this" for "I'll do that"
or in California "What's up, dude?" for "How's it going, buddy?" -- so it's not
about the slang, that's easy to copy.

What really trips me up is that the sounds are different. Since the differences
are minimal and hardly noticeable to non-Americans, I wasn't aware of it for a
long time. I always thought that eventually, no one would be able to tell the
difference, but I was way off: The longer I listen to my English, the clearer
it becomes where the differences lie. But of course, I won't give up.
Currently, I play pool every day on AOL with a guy who grew up in a rough
neighborhood in San Francisco, and he teaches me the exact pronunciation of
slang terms from the "hoods" like "Whyya sweaten me?" for "Hey, don't hassle
me!", "Whaddup gee?" for "Hey, buddy!" and "Audi 5000" for "Goodbye". When I
also do the hand gesture that black youths in street gangs use to symbolize a
gun, the guys on AOL completely crack up with laughter. My old English teacher
Haueisen must be turning in his grave.

Back to the East Coast: The area where AOL's headquarters is located consists
only of highways and giant supermarkets and is really boring. You can really
see what an exception San Francisco is among American cities with its
international, colorful mix. Who would want to live anywhere else!

@Z: 29 Palms and Joshua Tree National Park

<pic images/joshua.ps The typical Joshua trees in the desert>

<em>Michael</em> 
The second half of our annual vacation (1 week) was spent in the
deserts down by San Diego. Within California, you can fly around very
cheaply, so the flight from San Francisco to San Diego, about 800
kilometers further south, and back costs only about 100 dollars per
person. The weather there is a bit warmer; in San Francisco, it tends
to rain in the winter, and although the temperature here rarely falls
below 45 degrees Fahrenheit, we prefer it to be really sunny. We regularly buy
the Süddeutsche Zeitung along with the "Magazin" from our "Pali" (as
Angelika always calls the Palestinian newspaper vendor around the
corner) every Friday, and Angelika had read there that in a small
desert town called "29 Palms," there are not only 29 palm trees but
also a nice motel that rents out small cottages with fireplaces and
such.

<pic images/wueste.ps The deserts near San Diego -- lots of sand and a rental car!>

Occasionally, illustrious figures from nearby Palm Springs, who
have grown tired of the whole jet-set scene there, hide out in the
cheap lodging for a few days to laze around without being recognized
by anyone--because the dull folks living in this end-of-the-world
area probably wouldn't even notice if Madonna and Dennis Rodman (for
the older folks: Madonna is a pop singer and Dennis Rodman a
basketball player with green hair) strolled arm in arm through the
streets. Unfortunately, we didn't spot Cindy Crawford in a worn-out
tracksuit or Steven Spielberg in swim trunks, but Angelika thought
that an elderly gentleman who was lurking around the bar in the
evening was a famous director, though she couldn't recall his name.

Anyway, we had our fun exploring the deserts in our legendary hiking
boots during the day and inhaling the remarkable air, which lacks any
moisture and smells distilled--the mountains surrounding the desert
area block any rain, and the sun shines about 364 days a year.
Nevertheless, various types of thorny bushes and cacti thrive there,
which are nice to look at--though not to touch. There are said to be
plenty of rattlesnakes too; we didn't see any, but one evening it
seemed to us as if we heard one rattling away in the distance.
Kssssrrr! Kssssrrr!

<pic images/koyote.ps A little coyote>

On the way to a rather rocky area at the foot of a mountain, where we
had hoped to find a waterfall according to the travel guide, we came
across a sign warning of mountain lions. Indeed, these not entirely
harmless animals are quite common here in America. We were aware of
reports that even near San Francisco, in Berkeley, a jogger was
recently attacked by a mountain lion that had wandered into the city.

I must digress briefly here, because when we mentioned this topic to
our motel host and I remarked that these lions had probably become
city lions, the host interjected that they would no longer growl but
only shout "Hey, Baby!" Back to the wilderness: From previous visits,
we knew that if you encounter a mountain lion, you should make
yourself appear large, wave your arms, shout, and throw small
stones--and if attacked, never fall to the ground but stand upright
and fight the animal--and always hit back hard! This is not a funny
joke; it was actually stated in a brochure from the visitor center.

<pic images/lion.ps Warning about the mountain lion>

So, after passing the warning sign on our hike, we grabbed sticks and
I picked up a rock, and we continued on our way. The path
deteriorated noticeably, becoming narrower, and we had to push aside
some thorny bushes to get through. When we finally reached a sort of
oasis with palm trees, where a small stream flowed and we climbed a
few rocks, we heard a suspicious rustling in the bushes and shortly
after a loud splash, as if a medium-sized animal had jumped into the
water.

<pic images/pieks.ps Cacti with sharp spines>
<pic images/schuh.ps ... that even drill into the shoe!>

That was too much for us, and we made a hasty retreat. Due to
our rush, we pushed back the thorn branches rather carelessly,
resulting in a few minor scratches, but eventually, we reached open
ground without a rendezvous with a mountain lion. And "Hohoho!
Hohoho!" echoed from the bushes in the distance--no, I made that part
up, but the rest is true, really true!

@Z: "You've got Mail"

<em>Michael</em> 
Back in San Francisco, we watched the latest movie: "You've Got
Mail," starring Meg Ryan and Tom Hanks. The funny thing about it is
that the whole film revolves around how the two meet and like each
other on the internet, and since everything is anonymous there, they
don't realize that they also know each other in real life--and can't
stand each other there. And they use AOL, as you can see repeatedly
in the scenes! AOL is, for those of you who are a bit slow, the
company I work for, and accordingly, I'm familiar with the "You've
got mail!" phrase from daily work, as that's what the computer says
when you turn it on and have new emails. Since I receive about 50
emails a day, I hear it quite often. Anyway, the movie is quite
funny, and if you're technology-averse yetis who still use pens,
typewriters, and other antique devices, you absolutely must watch it
to learn how things work nowadays and all that.

@Z: "Perl Power" -- Go to Perl in English

<pic images/perlpower.ps My new book -- in English.>

<em>Michael</em> 
And there is also news to report from the production mill of the
tireless Michael S.: The reach of German books is inevitably limited
to German-speaking countries, and as is well known, I want to bombard
the whole world with my products. So it was very convenient for me to
hear from the UK branch of publisher Addison-Wesley that they
were interested in translating my German book into English and
launching it on the world market. No sooner said than done: A
translator received the book via email, worked on it for a month, and
finally sent back the result. I reviewed it, made corrections here
and there, sent it back, and after a few rounds, the final result was
ready: It will be in stores at the end of January. I have already
received 6 sample copies and have given most of them to my colleagues
at AOL. You can also order it from the largest bookstore on the
Internet, Amazon: Go to <LINK>https://www.amazon.com|amazon.com</LINK>
and enter "schilli" in
the search field -- and you'll be beamed to the right place. It's
quite strange to read my text in English -- but hey, if it brings
money in... and my declared life goal is, as is well known, for my
book to one day be in the bookstore of Stanford University. That
could happen soon, then we'll go there with the camera...

@Z: Sales tax and mail-in rebate

<em>Michael</em> 
This brings something interesting to mind: When you buy something in
a store in America, it's well-known that the sales tax is added to
the listed price, which is 8.5% in San Francisco. If you buy a
chocolate bar for $0.99, you pay $1.08 at the register. This is
always confusing for tourists and especially leads to problems when
you've painstakingly added up the amounts of all the items in your
head before paying, intending to dump the kilo of loose change you've
been carrying around for weeks onto the counter--only for the cashier
to suddenly ask for a completely different amount! However, you get
used to it after a while.

Recently, though, a second confusing factor has come into play: the
so-called mail-in rebate. It might happen that a computer superstore
advertises a new modem for $49.95, but when you go there, grab the
item, and take it to the register, it suddenly costs $69.95 plus tax!
The realization comes when you take a closer look at the price tag:
in the fine print, it states that the listed price is only applicable
after the so-called mail-in rebate, meaning you pay more in the
store, then send a coupon to the company, and after a few weeks, you
receive a check refunding the difference. The advantage for the
company: they know who bought the item and can bombard the customer
with targeted advertising.

This system sometimes leads to absurd situations, such as when the
mail-in rebate is as high as the product price, which does happen.
For example, the listed price for 10 diskettes is often
$0.00--absolutely nothing! In the store, you pay $9.95 and
simultaneously receive a coupon for the same amount--if you send this
in along with the receipt, you receive a check for $9.95 after a few
weeks, and the diskettes were practically free: you just have to
account for tax and postage.

@Z: Christmas tree in San Francisco

<pic images/tanne.ps The (real!) Christmas tree in San Francisco>

<em>Michael</em> 
Like typical Germans in exile--giving in to hopeless sentimentality--we
naturally couldn't resist buying a Christmas tree this year. We had to shell
out 60 dollars, but it was delivered directly to our apartment. That
was important because we still don't have a car, and transporting a
6 foot Christmas tree on the streetcar would have been quite
conspicuous. Since the houses here are made of wood and real candles
on Christmas trees are actually illegal, I kept a filled bucket of
water ready just in case... but everything went well.

@Z: Getting connected to the Internet

<pic images/comp.ps Angelika at the new computer in the living room>

<em>Michael</em> Angelika is now quite active on the internet as well --
writing emails, browsing the web, and sending me "instant messages" to the
office. It's a good thing that our access doesn't cost us anything in terms of
phone charges or membership fees, otherwise, we would have ended up in the
poorhouse long ago. Here in America, you don't pay a penny for local calls;
they are all included in the so-called "flat rate," $15 a month for the second
line. It's about time that Telekom in Germany or its competitors adjust their
fees!

The photo above shows how Angelika is using the new computer in the
living room, which she prefers because, allegedly, the screen of the
old computer in the bedroom is "so bad." Ungrateful computer youth!
Back in my day, we would have been happy with such a cheap monitor!
We had to remember our programs in our heads because we didn't have a
hard drive! Oh, how tough we were...

The photo above also shows the setup that has been enhancing my
comfort while sitting at the computer for quite some time: In front of the keyboard
lies a regular towel, on which my hands rest comfortably while
typing. In front of the mouse is a small washcloth, which keeps the
wrists warm and thus prevents the computer ailment "carpal tunnel
syndrome" (a type of chronic tendonitis) that comes from too much
typing.

So, that's it from me. Back to the broadcasting house!

@Z: Planning a Visit to Germany

<em>Angelika</em> 
So, now it's my turn. Michael keeps writing and
writing, I can't get a word in!
First of all, I want to inform you that I have actually managed to
book a flight to Germany. I will be flying out on January 15th and
will stay until February 12th. A four-week visit to Germany sounds
incredibly long, but experience shows that four weeks are just flying by. As it
stands now, I will be doing a little tour around Germany to see as
many of you as possible. Since this is a major organizational effort
for me, I would be very grateful if you could help me organize
meet-ups. I fear that time will be too short to visit each of you
individually. Therefore, it would be great if we could arrange group
gatherings, if possible.

The problem is also that I need to go to
Frankfurt to the American consulate to get a new visa stamp in my
passport. I have to deal with this annoying bureaucratic matter
because Michael switched to AOL some time ago, but we still have the
Blacksun stamp from the old company in our passports. The guidelines
of the American immigration authorities stipulate that you can only
get this stamp if you leave America (please don't ask me why that
is). However, I need the stamp to be able to re-enter. I will spare
you the nerve-wracking process of reaching the consulate in
Frankfurt. Long story short, I managed to make an appointment in
Frankfurt, and since our friend Britta decided to move to Frankfurt
and will grant me asylum (thanks, Britta!), the whole thing has a
silver lining. I can visit Britta and take care of the visa stuff at
the same time. What I actually wanted to say is that I have to plan
my Germany tour around this appointment. So far, my plans are as
follows:

I will land in Bremen on January 16th and then stay with my parents in
Oldenburg. On January 20th, I will head to Münster in the evening, where I will
stay with my friend Christa. I will stay there until January 23rd. On Saturday,
January 23rd, I will leave early for Frankfurt. I have an appointment at the
consulate on January 25th. On January 26th, I will set off for Augsburg/Munich.
I plan to visit Bavaria for 8 days, then return to Oldenburg, where I will stay
until February 12th. Hope this makes sense! Changes are, of course, possible.
If anyone wants to reach me in Germany, it's best to call my parents.  My
parents usually know where I am, so they can help you if you don't remember
where I am at any given time.

@Z: Power Outage in San Francisco

<em>Angelika</em> 
By the way, two astounding events occurred in San Francisco shortly
before Christmas. One of them was even reported on German television:
There was a power outage in San Francisco for several hours because
an employee from the energy supply company, called PG\&E, flipped the
wrong switch at a power substation near San Francisco. Nothing
worked for hours: no computers, no buses or streetcars, as they run on overhead
lines, no subway, no traffic lights, no ATMs, etc. However, there was
no doomsday atmosphere, as was often claimed on television; people
took it rather calmly. It's important to know that in America, power
outages for short periods are relatively common, but several hours is
extremely unusual even by local standards.

I found it interesting that there was no emergency power system at all; not
even at the airport, and this in a city prone to earthquakes, where everyone
knows that the power easily goes out when the earth shakes heavily. We
were lucky that our room heater still worked, as it runs on gas, and the hot water
functioned perfectly. Michael didn't notice any of the excitement anyway, as he
was on the East Coast at the time. I was a bit worried about my refrigerator
(but it held up bravely and didn't defrost) and suffered greatly from not being
able to make coffee all day, but otherwise, it wasn't too bad. I somehow found
the story that a wrongly flipped switch was to blame for everything quite
endearing, following the motto "Small cause, big effect!" You could really make
a movie out of it.

The second sensation was that it snowed in San Francisco. You might not find
that exciting, as you are used to German winters, but here
it was the first snowfall in 20 years. Of course, the snow didn't
settle, but the children still found it amazing because many of them
had never experienced real snow before.

@Z: New Year's Eve on the Bay

<em>Angelika</em> 
Michael already mentioned our Christmas decorations. Of course, we
also celebrated New Year's Eve in style, as you never know how long
we'll be in San Francisco, and we have to celebrate the occasions as
they come. Our first New Year's Eve in the city two years ago was spent cruising
on the Bay (that's the water around San Francisco) on a ship, and
since we enjoyed it so much, we thought we'd do it again this year.

After all, two years ago, I was struggling with the phenomenon of
"jet lag" (fatigue due to the long flight and the nine-hour time
difference) because I had just flown into San Francisco the day
before (you might remember, I left for America on December 30th, and
Michael had already set off into the wide world in mid-November) and
therefore fell asleep at the table a few times. This time, however, I
was wide awake: In our finest evening attire (Michael actually had to
part with his beloved sneakers, jeans, and his favorite Adidas
sweater, which is quite worn out, for one evening), we enjoyed the
good food, danced (I only had to slightly force Michael), and kept
gazing lovingly at our San Francisco.

For those of you who have never been to San Francisco, it's worth noting that
one of the most beautiful views of the city is from the water. You can see the
entire cityscape, which is especially enchanting in the dark because of the sea
of lights. Naturally, you also get fantastic views of the Bay Bridge and Golden
Gate Bridge. The highlight was when the captain announced that we would now be
passing under the Golden Gate Bridge.  You must know that everyone who lives in
San Francisco develops a special relationship with this bridge. It's not only a
landmark for many tourists but also something like a good friend for the
"locals" (residents). And I swear, you can drive over this bridge a thousand
times, and your heart still skips a beat when you see the first bridge pillar.
In any case, the cruise was very successful. We only missed the band's
rendition of "I Left My Heart in San Francisco," which they played the first
year, but no worries, we just hummed it to ourselves!

@Z: A Year In Review

<em>Angelika</em> 
The end of the year is always a time to take a moment and look back. For
me, setting up a new calendar and clearing out the address book has a
symbolic character. So, on December 31st, I sat down and transferred
birthdays and addresses into the new calendar, not only to create
order but also to quietly reflect on the year 1998. In doing so, I
thought of all of you who visited us in 1998, or those who tirelessly
wrote to us, called us, and maintained contact despite the distance.

I was also able to transfer many new email addresses, and more and
more American addresses are filling up my calendar, a sign that we have
been living here for quite some time and that casual acquaintances
have turned into friendships. The sight of all those addresses that I
still have in my address book, to which many newsletters or birthday
greetings were sent, but from which no response came all year, made
me sad. Nothing is forever, a fact that I find hard to accept, and so
I couldn't bring myself to delete these addresses from my address
book. The hardest part was not being able to transfer the address of
Michael's friend Jani from his student days. Jani died in 1998 while
gliding, and seeing his address brought up images of Jani dancing at
our pre-wedding party and sitting blissfully with us at the table as
one of the last guests. Always in a good mood, always ready with an
endless story. Nothing is forever...

365 days are behind us and 365 are ahead of us. 1998 was a good,
adventurous year for us. With excitement and curiosity, we plunge
into the next one. We hope to see many familiar faces again in 1999.

I'll leave you with that for now, take care!

Angelika and Michael
