San Francisco, 04-01-1999

Hello, dear ones who stayed at home!

<pic images/amis.ps "Two happy foreigners.>

Since Michael brought his super expensive laptop home from the office
this weekend, I want to sit down right away and start typing so that
a new newsletter finally reaches you.

@Z: Stranger in one's own country

<em>Angelika</em> 
I saw many of you during my "Germany tour" in January and February or
at least spoke to you on the phone. It was nice to have the
opportunity to talk to you in detail and face-to-face again, even
though the time just flew by. Many people asked me if much has
changed in Germany or if I experience and perceive Germany
differently now. The fact is that when you live abroad for a long
time, you have a special eye for the peculiarities of your homeland.

For example, when you find the sign in the Frankfurt airport toilets
that says, "Using the toilets is free of charge!" you immediately
know that you are back in Germany. To be fair, it should be mentioned
that the sign was at least in four different languages; they do try
to be cosmopolitan. I also immediately noticed the smoking at
Frankfurt airport or in the restaurants. As we have often reported,
in California, you are not allowed to smoke in public buildings or in
restaurants, pubs, bars, etc. It is quite astonishing how quickly you
get used to it. Our friend Peter, who also lives in San Francisco and
is a Bavarian and a heavy smoker, or rather was, was so unnerved by
the smoking in restaurants and pubs during his visit to Germany last
year that he completely gave up smoking -- to this day.

@Z: Dual Citizenship

<em>Angelika</em> 
The discussion about dual citizenship also seemed "typically German"
to me. I didn't quite understand why it's a catastrophe to have two
passports. The argument I heard most often was that one must
ultimately decide what they want to be. The idea that someone might
want to be both seems difficult for many to grasp. Living abroad
myself, I can well understand why someone wouldn't want to easily
give up their citizenship. People want to keep the door open somehow,
to be able to return at any time without problems, even if they might
never actually do so. It's more of a psychological matter. Dual
citizenship actually reflects how one feels when living in another
country for many years. You become a bit of both. It's a shame that
it has only come to a compromise in Germany.

By the way, America generally does not recognize dual citizenship
either. However, the authority responsible for collecting the old
passport does not enforce this, so many people end up having two
passports. If a child is born on American soil to foreign parents,
the child receives American citizenship and usually also the
citizenship of the parents, and must choose one upon reaching
adulthood. Otherwise, a foreigner can only become an American citizen
after holding a Green Card for five years and having lived
continuously in the country during that time. Additionally, one must
demonstrate a reasonable proficiency in English and knowledge of the
basics of American history and government structure.

This is assessed through a test. Questions might include: What are the colors
of our flag? How many stars are on it? How many stripes? What do the stars
represent? What do the stripes represent? Who is currently the President? Who
is currently the Vice President? How many representatives are in Congress?
These questions can make some people think hard. The answers, of course, are
red/white/blue, 50, 13, the states, the 13 founding states of the USA, Bill
Clinton, Al Gore, 435. It's logical, isn't it? Naturally, one must not have
committed any crimes or been caught doing so if one wants to become an American
citizen. As you can see, citizenship is not just handed out easily.  Five years
may not seem very long at first glance, but one must not forget that you need
to have a Green Card, which is not so easy to obtain anymore. Moreover, not
everyone has a Green Card. For example, we only have an ordinary visa.

This brings us back to the question of what it is like to live abroad
and how one evaluates their own country based on this experience. It
can perhaps best be described as seeing the advantages and
disadvantages in both countries, being critical of both, but also
learning to appreciate certain aspects more.

Since I've been back here, I've been spending a lot of time in the
darkroom at UC Berkeley because I'm taking two photography courses
this semester. I've already been given the title "Queen of the
Darkroom," not by Michael, but by a fellow student who has taken a
course with me before. I completed my certificate program "Children
and the Changing Family" last semester, and lo and behold, the
certificate arrived in the mail. It looks really fancy: stamp,
university crest, etc. Since Americans are practical, the certificate
is conveniently sized to fit in a picture frame. It definitely looks
better than my high school diploma and university degree.

@Z: Firefighter Angelika

<pic images/nert.ps Angelika officially helps out in earthquake emergencies>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Last week, I received a noteworthy certificate from the fire
department in San Francisco. You might be wondering if I've
completely lost it and decided to train as a firefighter. Far from
it! I completed an earthquake training course. As you know, San
Francisco's only downside is that it is highly earthquake-prone.
Since we've already experienced several small ones that scared me
enough, our friend Anthony and I decided to do something about it and
signed up for the aforementioned training. It lasted six weeks and
was led by firefighters. We learned what to do when the ground starts
shaking, first aid, San Francisco's disaster plan, how to search a
building, assess how damaged it is, turn off the gas and water, etc.
The training is primarily about helping yourself, but also your
neighborhood, as it's certain that emergency services will be
completely overwhelmed when a major earthquake hits. The training is
aptly named "NERT" (Neighborhood Earthquake Response Team), meaning
the firefighters provide training in various neighborhoods so that
established teams can form to help in the event of an earthquake. You
even get a small kit, namely a construction helmet (everyone, of
course, hoped for a real American firefighter helmet) and an orange
vest (Michael found my outfit highly amusing). Note from Michael:
"NERD" means "idiot" in English, just thought I'd throw that in!

Last week, the so-called "Disaster Scenario" took place, essentially
a practical exercise, and the execution was done in a Hollywood-like
manner. For example, we had to search a room with injured people. To
make everything as realistic as possible, the victims (volunteers)
were professionally made up and equipped with fake blood. It looked
so real that it made me feel quite uneasy. The victims moaned and
screamed so realistically that a woman in my team kept murmuring,
"I'm moving out of this city!" Then there was a dummy (posing as a dead
body). It looked so realistic that several people (myself included)
only realized after some time that it was a dummy. It really makes
your knees start to shake, especially when the firefighters then go
into detail about how it starts to smell after a relatively short
time if you don't get the victims out early enough. A nightmare!

In any case, everyone who completed the training received a
certificate and a handshake from the fire chief. Of course, it was
also emphasized how important we all are, etc. By the way, I think
that Americans have an inimitable talent for motivating and making
everyone feel like the greatest. In any kind of class, it's
important that the individual has fun, no matter how serious the
topic may be, like in earthquake training. Sometimes you get the
feeling that everything is a big show. On the other hand, such classes are
really much more fun and are generally not as dry as in Germany.

@Z: Liability Craziness in the U.S.

<em>Angelika</em> 
I was able to experience something else typically American during the
earthquake training. Before it started, we had to sign a two-page
document stating that we would not sue the fire department if we got
injured during the training. It's important to know that in America,
there are the most absurd liability lawsuits. The rule is that people
sue when they believe they can get something out of it, meaning if
you have no money, you don't need to worry about liability, but if
you do have money, it's better to get good insurance. This liability
policy is also the reason why McDonald's had to pay a woman millions
a few years ago because she burned herself with coffee from a coffee
cup, and there was no warning on the cup to be cautious because the
contents were hot. Next time you're in America, you might want to pay
attention to this. Almost every paper or plastic cup now bears this
warning. In general, this liability hysteria has led to the most
absurd precautions being listed on package inserts and instruction
manuals, such as that it's not healthy to dry your cat in the
microwave (this is actually true), or that you have to sign with
doctors that you will settle out of court in the event of a liability
case.

To return once more to the earthquake training: To ensure we don't
fall out of practice, there is a so-called "drill" (something like a
reserve exercise) twice a year. This year, the first one is on April
17th. It will be interesting to see how it goes.

So, now it's Michael's turn.

@Z: "Perl Power" spotted at Stanford

<pic images/stanford.ps Finally: My book in the Stanford University
bookstore!>

<em>Michael</em> 
News from the book front: My tome "Perl Power" has finally appeared
in the Stanford University bookstore. In the picture above, the happy
author is shown, very moved, holding his work in his favorite
bookstore. Hooray! With that, my life's goal has been achieved, wow,
that was quick! Time to find a new one ... hmm ... hmm ... grumble
... aha, here it comes: a red Ferrari F355. Let's see, maybe that
will work out too.

@Z: Snowboarding in Tahoe

<pic images/snow.ps The happy snowboarders Larry, Chris, and Michael>

<em>Michael</em> 
What I've always wanted to share: For over two years, a pair of skis
has been lying under our bed. We had them shipped over here to the U.S. with our
furniture back then because I thought I would get a chance to go
skiing here, but that didn't happen. So far, I haven't managed to go
to Lake Tahoe, a fairly large ski area in the Sierra Nevada.
Then one Friday, my colleagues Chris and Larry asked me if I wanted
to go to Sugar Bowl near Lake Tahoe on Saturday to take a
snowboarding course with them. Since I was living the bachelor life
at the time, with Angelika being in Germany, I naturally agreed right
away. So, the next day at half-past five in the morning, we set off
in Chris's 4-wheel Explorer, and by nine, we arrived. We paid 55
dollars for a lift ticket, rental snowboard and boots, and a two-hour
beginner's course -- super awesome! Now, there's a huge difference
between skiing and snowboarding; just because you can do one doesn't
mean you can do the other. Snowboarding is like being strapped to a
skateboard or surfboard, and without instructions, you can't get anywhere
without constantly falling on your face.

The ski instructor then patiently showed us how to first strap one
foot in and then push off with the other foot like on a skateboard,
leaning the board into the turn. Once you strap both feet onto the
board, you can't even stand up at first, and when you finally
manage to, you immediately fall over again, which is always good for
a laugh. But after two hours, we all got the hang of it and started
surfing down the slopes--still beginner hills, of course--but we got
better and better. We kept going up with the lift and couldn't get
enough, even though I crashed about 50 times. The muscle soreness the
next day wasn't in the legs, as is usually the case with skiing,
but in the arms from getting up so many times after contact with the
snow.

@Z: Working conditions in the USA

<em>Michael</em> 
Now for something completely different: What I've always wanted to
get off my chest about the working conditions here: As is well known,
Americans are content with a lousy two weeks of vacation a year. And,
since there is no state religion here--unlike in Germany--but rather
a colorful mix of cultures, everyone is allowed to define three
additional holidays on top of the few public holidays in the year
(New Year's, Martin Luther King Day, Thanksgiving, Lincoln's
Birthday, Independence Day, President's Day, Labor Day come to
mind). This way, the Chinese can celebrate their New Year sometime in
February, and all the many religions, Mormons, Baptists,
Scientologists, and whatever else there is--everyone gets their due.

Faced with this question, I would naturally choose February 19th--the
death anniversary of Bon Scott, the singer of my favorite band AC/DC,
but I usually take some Friday or Monday to extend a weekend. And
regarding the working hours: My colleagues regularly laugh themselves
sick when I tell them that in Germany the 35-hour workweek is
actually the norm. In computer companies like AOL, there's no punch
card, but everyone logs the hours they work on a project into a
computer program, which allows the company not only to determine how
much a project costs but also how many hours an individual works in a
week. If there are only 40 hours logged, you can expect the boss to
drop by and cautiously ask if you're still satisfied with the work
and so on. The norm is more like 50 and sometimes 60 hours--and
overtime is, of course, not paid; it's just a sign of how much you
enjoy working.

So it's no big deal to work until three in the
morning if there's a serious bug in the system or to work over the
weekend if a project needs to be finished by Monday--totally normal,
right! If there's a fire, you put it out, and just going home would
be an absolute faux pas and unfair towards your colleagues. On the other hand, you have
to see that in Germany hardly any employer would allow me to work
from home two days a week and come to the office whenever I want. By
the way, people are always in a good mood at the office; being "annoyed"
or complaining is considered completely unacceptable. "No problem!"
or "That's ok!" is the standard response to "Sorry." This is true for
all situations: Even if someone accidentally poured a bucket of water
over your head, the response would still be "Don't worry, that's ok!"

Anything else would be downright rude. "Socializing" in the
workplace is emphasized; you talk to people you don't know yet, ask
a few questions about what they're working on, and maybe crack a
few jokes, even if you only see them briefly. One thing I always
notice with visitors from Germany: You don't just say "Yes" or
"No," you always add something. When the server in a restaurant asks
if you want another coffee, it's not "No," but "No, thanks, I'm
just fine." Or not just "Yes," but you say something original like
"Yeah, sounds great!" or "Coffee'd be awesome, dude!" The latter, of
course, only if you're dressed like a snowboarder :). At work,
it's similar:
If someone asks something, you help, even if
you actually don't have time. This can be totally annoying when
you're working on something and someone keeps coming by wanting to
know something silly. And if you, like me, work in a cubicle,
you're never really alone; there's always something going on.
Since everyone gives their cubicle a personal touch, I'm planning
to put a chair in soon so my visitors can sit comfortably. No
kidding! I already have the chair at home; I just need to bring it to
the office.

@Z: Buying a Car

<em>Michael</em> 
And -- what takes a long time will finally be good -- we finally
bought a car! After spending several weekends scouring car
dealerships to find an affordable used car and getting increasingly
annoyed by those sleazy salesmen, I ended up buying the car from some
guy at work, to be precise, my boss's boss. It's an eight-year-old
black Acura Integra (a better Honda) with a manual transmission,
which is very unusual for America since everyone here drives
automatics and most Americans can't even operate a stick shift. In
San Francisco, that's quite a challenge, as streets with a 20%
incline are still considered flat, and if you have to park in a tight
spot, the clutch takes a beating.

The mechanic who inspected the car
for me also told me that a clutch lasts about 60,000 miles in Silicon
Valley and only 20,000 in San Francisco. Angelika was already worried
sick, but I promised to give her an intensive "hill start" course
over the weekend. One Sunday, we drove to Potrero Hill, and Angelika
had to start the car repeatedly on the less busy streets there, first
on the gentler slopes, then on the steeper ones, and it worked! The
clutch's lifespan is now reduced by about 10,000 miles, but finally
she got her San Francisco certificate!

The first accessory I bought was a coffee cup holder, because the car
didn't have one, which is actually unusual for American cars, but oh
well. Since I usually grab a coffee and a donut from the donut shop
around the corner before I drive to work (when I drive), I obviously
need a holder for the cup, otherwise the coffee would spill all the
time!

The drive takes half an hour, I get on Highway 280 (called
"Twoeighty!") right around the corner from us, and then it's a steady
70-mile-per-hour (about 110 km/h) ride while I listen to the station
KSJO 92.3, which plays at least one Metallica and one AC/DC song
every hour, awesome! This has, of course, led to me, um, well,
neglecting my bicycle a bit, which Angelika always teases me about,
saying I'm getting fatter, which is absolutely not true, complete
nonsense! If the weather is nice and I don't have to move the car for
street cleaning, I'll definitely ride my bike again, no question! And
I'll sign up for a fitness center soon too. Stay tuned for this
report -- in a new episode of this newsletter: "Michael on the
Treadmill," stay tuned!

The car also doesn't have any air conditioning, which we'll probably be
cursing about in the summer when it gets 100 degrees hot in Wine
Country or Silicon Valley, but the main thing is that we have some
kind of ride. But the thing has 120 horsepower (that's why I
bought it, don't tell anyone)! The license plate currently reads
"2ZAP439," but since in America, if you pay $100 a year (which goes
to a charitable cause), you can choose your own letter combination,
it will probably soon be "PERLMAN" or "PERLPWR." I've already
checked, both are available. By the way, the DMV in California isn't
clueless either: Since you pay 8.5% sales tax for a car bought from a
dealer, but if you buy a car from a private person, this transaction
completely bypasses the state, the DMV
(Department of Motor Vehicles) simply demands the tax when
registering the car, no amount of crying and gnashing of teeth will
help, the credit card has to come out! Well, so far the little
Japanese car is running excellently, I hope it stays with us.

@Z: German accent when speaking English

<em>Michael</em> 
I already wrote a little piece in the last newsletter about what the
"German Accent" in the pronunciation of English sentences is all
about. In the meantime, I have enrolled in a course at the University
of Berkeley called "Pronunciation Skills in English," which is all
about how to eliminate your accent so that you sound somewhat like an
American. The course is led by a resolute old matron who drills the
10 participants, who come from China, Vietnam, France, and Germany,
on how to pronounce words correctly with a California slang. She
repeatedly emphasizes the stark differences between British
pronunciation, which is taught in most schools outside of America,
and American pronunciation.

For example, when a Brit says "offer,"
the American version almost sounds like "uh-ffer." We had to
repeatedly emphasize the pronunciation of similar-sounding words,
such as the difference between "few" and "view." Well? Well? If you
read them aloud, you might not notice any difference at first, but
since I am now a bit more educated, I'll tell you: The "f" in "few"
is a voiceless (hissing) "f," while the "v" in "view" is voiced,
almost like a German "w." Or what would be the difference between
"France" (pronounced "Franz" in American English) and "friends"?
Well? Well? Okay, I'll tell you that too: "France" hisses at the end,
and "friends" not only has a more "e"-sounding "a" but also a voiced
"s" (like in "hose"), nothing hisses. Additionally, when it doesn't
hiss but hums, the word is drawn out, so "France" is noticeably
shorter than "frieennnds." At the end of the course, we'll have to read
a page of American literature (it must not be British!) aloud and
record it on tape. The teacher will then give her comments and also
record them on the tape.

@Z: Motivation by Tony Robbins

<em>Michael</em> 
What I wanted to get off my chest: To motivate myself, I often
listen to motivational tapes from my favorite guru, Anthony Robbins
(he's the one who always shouts: "Make a difference today! Take
action! Now!"), and since then, things have only been going uphill.
So, I highly recommend it: In America, you can find tapes for
everything and anything in every bookstore, like how to negotiate
better, overcome fears, and plan career success. You can conveniently
listen to these tapes in the car or on public transport with a
Walkman and arrive at the office all fired up.

Anthony Robbins is the
most well-known among the motivators; he also offers courses where
you learn to walk over hot coals, all a matter of motivation. He also
gives useful fitness tips; for example, on one tape, he mentioned
that you should drink a lot of freshly squeezed fruit juice--and,
bam! We bought a juicer, a $160 piece that quickly juices fresh
grapefruits and oranges, and now we often drink half-liter amounts of
fruit juice. Man, it tastes incredible, I tell you, and gives you
energy to unroot trees! Unfortunately, you have to spend five
minutes cleaning the juicer afterward, but the juice makes up for
everything, it's so creamy and amazing. Jogging on the beach is also
supposed to be healthy, so from now on, every Tuesday and Thursday,
before I start working from home, I'll drive to the beach (20
minutes) and run for an hour in the sand, just past the incoming
waves. Well, just fully Americanized, the man.

@Z: Price Of Gas

<em>Michael</em> 
Recently, the news reported that an oil refinery in Oakland caught
fire, and just a few days later, a second accident occurred in
Richmond, also near San Francisco. After the OPEC countries messed
around with the prices, gasoline prices in and around San Francisco
skyrocketed to dizzying heights within a few days. Although only one
gasoline brand was affected by the accident, the other companies, not
stupid, jumped on the bandwagon and also significantly raised
their prices. As a result, gasoline now costs $1.65 per gallon (79
cents per liter) instead of the usual $1.20 per gallon (58 cents per
liter), which is insane!

I was quite surprised when I had to shell
out twenty dollars for a full tank instead of the usual $15. By the
way, the fact that gasoline in America is still relatively cheap
compared to European countries is not because it is produced more
cheaply, but because the government here imposes almost no taxes on
gasoline--because Americans have absorbed driving with their mother's
milk, and owning a car is the most natural thing in the world. An
American without a car is like a cowboy without a horse. Or, as
someone recently put it at the bus stop when the bus didn't come
again and they were frustrated with public transportation: "They're
assuming everybody's got a car! Don't have one? Fuck you!". I'll
leave the translation at that.

@Z: AOL buys Netscape.

<em>Michael</em> 
And, perhaps you've heard it in the news, things are quite chaotic at
AOL right now. AOL recently acquired internet pioneer Netscape
for ten billion dollars. AOL is mainly based on the East Coast (with
9,000 people) and has only a small branch (100 people) on the West
Coast here in San Mateo. The acquired company Netscape is based in
Mountain View in Silicon Valley, about 30 kilometers from San Mateo,
where about 2,500 people work. With the merger came a major
restructuring effort, and the press announced 450 layoffs at Netscape
and 450 at AOL.

This is how it happened: Suddenly, it was announced
that within two weeks, it would be decided who could stay and who had
to leave. On the day of the decision, three days later, the
conference rooms, which are usually visible through the surrounding
glass walls, were covered with paper, and people were called to
meetings. Beforehand, the sad news was delivered to the candidates
for dismissal. I was quite shocked to learn that it affected my
cubicle neighbor Mike and my colleague Robert --two out of
ten engineers were simply let go! Now, the two have been given a
transition period of 4 months during which they can look for new
jobs, and the severance package with three months' salary is better
than usual elsewhere (where you are immediately thrown out), but
still, that Wednesday was a tough day.

Eventually, the layoffs from
other departments were also announced, and there were many tears, a
sad day. Well, the working world in America is tough. Oh, yes, I
forgot: The whole thing means that instead of commuting to San Mateo,
I will have to go to the office in Mountain View going forward, which
takes almost an hour by car instead of half an hour--but I'll
survive. The positive side is that Netscape has
plenty of real estate, and it is a real internet company
from the early days: It is rumored that you're required to have long hair and own a
skateboard to work there; there is also a campus with 20 buildings
including a garden and pond, a cafeteria, many pool tables, rooms
with sofas where you can lounge and think, a concierge to whom you
can leave tasks to be done (e.g., "Please buy half a pound of
sausage") and much more. Well, I'm curious.

Until the next newsletter!

Your American Adventurers:

Angelika und Michael
