San Francisco, 11-20-1999

@Z: Tahiti

<pic images/resort.ps (#1) Over-water bungalows in Tahiti>

<em>Michael</em> 
We are back! We had one week of vacation in Tahiti, and there's a lot to
report, it's going to be great! We poor souls only have two weeks of
vacation a year, so we really went all out: We stayed in a bungalow
built on stilts over the turquoise waters of a lagoon (Figure (#1)). In
the top left of the picture, you can see the edge of the lagoon,
where the waves of the South Pacific are breaking. Tahiti is located just
south of the equator and is two hours away from the International Date
Line, where the mutiny on the Bounty broke out in 1789 (Figure (#2)).

<pic images/tahiti1.ps (#2) If the Earth were flat, Tahiti would be at the
edge.>

Within the lagoon itself, the water is only about two meters deep,
teeming with corals and tropical fish. Each of the over-water
bungalows has a small staircase, allowing you to descend into the
pleasantly warm (72 degrees Fahrenheit) water, equipped
with flippers and a diving mask, and go snorkeling, which we did
daily (Figure (#3)).

<pic images/m2tauch.ps (#3) snorkel ... snorkel ...>

The non-stop flight from Oakland (on the other side of the San
Francisco Bay) to Papeete in Tahiti took eight and a half hours. At
the airport in Papeete, we were greeted with the flower garlands that
we already knew from Hawaii. Five musicians played wonderful Tahitian
music at four a clock in the morning, and then it was off to the immigration
office: Tahiti is indeed a foreign country, not like Hawaii, which
belongs to the USA, but to our very special friends, the French, who
sometimes prefer not to speak English out of principle. And
apparently, France near the International Date Line is no longer even
part of the EU: there was a separate line for the French to show
their passports, while the rest of the world had to queue in the
other line. It's unbelievable what these fools get away with.

Then at five a clock, we took a boat to the neighboring island of Moorea,
where our bungalow was waiting. We had to be a bit more patient than
the others before we could move in, but we got the one right out in
the ocean, yay (see arrow)! Most of the time, we just lounged around
on the small terrace, where you could sit comfortably in the shade
and read, with a gentle warm breeze constantly blowing (Figure (#4)).

<pic images/asun.ps (#4) On the terrace sunbathing>

And in the evening, we always went to the hotel for Happy Hour,
where, sitting on the terrace with a "Mai Tai" or a "Pina Colada" in
hand, we prepared for the end of the day.

English is indeed spoken everywhere in the touristy areas, but as
soon as you venture off the beaten path, you might be met with a "Je
ne parle pas Anglais!" We both studied French for at least five years
in school, but to our dismay, we found that we couldn't string
together a single complete sentence anymore. I myself was known for always
getting a D with a tendency towards an F in French at school, so I
didn't have high hopes from the start. But it went quite well anyway;
with "Bonjour," "Merci," "Je voudrais..." and "L'addition s'il vous
plait," we managed to get by. The whole way of life is quite
un-American too; in the supermarket, you have to pack your purchases
yourself, the shops take a one-and-a-half-hour lunch break, and
whether you buy something or not is of no concern to the ladies and
gentlemen down there, who mostly wrap themselves in sarongs and
shuffle around in flip-flops.

One day, we were chatting in front of the hotel in German when a tour
guide approached us. He was about our age, around 24, heh heh. It turned
out he was from Oldenburg! We asked if it wasn't very expensive for
the locals here, after all, six small bottles of beer cost almost 10
dollars there (also in America, by the way). He said that while
things in the supermarket are expensive, nature offers everything
else. You can go fishing with a harpoon anytime, and in half an hour,
you have a free dinner. You can pick up and eat the coconuts that
fall from the palm trees. And a house there consists only of a
corrugated iron roof, which is accordingly cheap. The beach is for
everyone (Figure (#5)), all with snow-white sand. We saw school classes
having swimming lessons in the ocean -- even I would like to go back
to school for that!

<pic images/strand.ps (#5) At the Beach>

One day, we rented a car to explore the island. It was somewhat
expensive ($180 for two days, whereas in America you might pay around
$100), but when I saw the car, I almost burst out laughing: a Daewoo,
a Korean car, with maybe 40 horsepower (see Figure (#6)), and every time
I pressed the clutch, we were afraid it would fall apart.

<pic images/auto.ps (#6) Rental car a la French>

But it held up! All the way around the island is only 40 miles, but we clocked
several hundred miles on the car. The gas prices were truly European,
about four times as expensive as in the USA. And with the funny money
currency there (Polynesian Francs), you quickly end up paying three
thousand Durka Durkas. Interestingly, you just have to divide the
prices there by 100 to get the equivalent in American dollars, since
100 Polynesian Francs is roughly equal to one dollar.

On Moorea (the name means "yellow lizard" in the native language and
refers to an old legend), there is a special type of pineapple that
grows only in the fertile volcanic soil. It is smaller than the
Hawaiian pineapple, very sweet, and we even passed by a plantation
where no one was working. We were told that the Tahiti pineapple is
not intended for export, only for local use (Figure (#7)).

<pic images/ananas.ps (#7) This is how the pineapple grows!>

An American in our group asked the tour guide who the fields belonged
to, but only received evasive answers. He whispered to me, "One day,
this will all be a big golf course!" Every morning for breakfast,
there were a few slices of pineapple, papayas, guavas, and a special
type of grapefruit that only grows on Moorea and tastes super sweet,
delicious!

<pic images/harbor.ps The main road of Moorea>

This could have gone on forever, but after a week we had to return to the USA,
as work was waiting. It wasn't that simple, though, because unlike Angelika, I
hadn't left the country for three years, and our visa had changed in the
meantime because I had changed employers from Blaxxun to AOL. This wouldn't
have been a big deal if it weren't for the immigration authority's questionable
regulation that a visa stamp can only be placed in the passport outside the
country, even if all the other paperwork is already done. Without a visa stamp,
you can leave the country, but you can't re-enter. Since there is no American
embassy in Tahiti (the nearest one is in Fiji), Angelika took my passport with
her to Germany during her last visit there in the winter of this year, and the
embassy in Frankfurt renewed the stamp--miraculously--even though the passport
holder wasn't physically present: a stellar moment in visa technology. However,
this was too much for the immigration officer in Oakland: someone coming from
Tahiti with a visa renewed in Germany but no other US entry stamp in the
passport--he asked, confused, and we began to tell the story of the visa
renewal, with a huge line of returning vacationers behind us. Finally, the
officer shook his head, stamped the passport, and we hurried on our way--phew!
Entering the USA--always an adventure.

So much from Tahiti -- and to set the mood and as a world first in
the history of newsletters, I am providing a Tahitian music piece on
my website perlmeister.com, freshly from a CD that we bought there in
a store from a heavily tattooed man (I hope he's not out shopping
with my credit card number right now):
http://perlmeister.com/tahiti.mp3 is the URL you need to enter in
your browser -- it takes 10 minutes to download, then the player
should start running. If playback doesn't work immediately, you can
download the latest software for free at http://www.mp3.com. And one
more thing from the internet world: You can now read the newsletter
online at <LINK>https://usarundbrief.com</LINK>. But enough technobabble!

TODO

@Z: Taxes and social security in the USA

<em>Michael</em> 
Back to the rough everyday life! Something I've always wanted to get
off my chest: People pay taxes in America too, and not just a little!
In Germany, everyone looks to the USA and complains: Oh my, oh my,
how much tax do I have to pay! And how complicated is the annual tax
return! Over there, everything is much better and a thousand times
simpler! But I tell you: Anyone who has ever filled out a 1040 form
from the American tax authority IRS (Internal Revenue Service) will
never complain about German taxes again. Although the agency is
up-to-date and provides the forms on the internet, where you can
download and print them at home, when you take a closer look, you
come to the conclusion that the IRS employs crazy people who come up
with these monsters.

Our tax situation here has become so complicated--due to the extra
kickbacks from the sale of my books in Germany--that I can no longer
do the annual tax return myself. The tax advisors in the USA are also
too clueless, and only tax expert Angelika can still make sense of
it. For this, we have to buy a program called "TurboTax Home and
Business" every year, which costs 80 dollars, knows all the special
regulations, and can only be operated by Angelika.

The tax is divided into two components, simply put: the "Federal
Tax," which is the actual income tax, and the "State Tax," which in
our case, since we live in sunny California, is called the
"California Tax." It's like having to pay extra taxes if you lived in
Bavaria! However, it should not be confused with the sales tax, which
is also levied depending on the state but is collected at the store
and often surprises tourists because you end up paying more at the
register than what is indicated on the price tag. No, I'm only
talking about the annual tax return. By the way, each state has its
own state tax rate, and there are also states (e.g., Texas) that do
not levy any state-specific income tax. However, the "Federal Tax" is
the same everywhere.

Using a complex calculation program and space-age computer
technology, I have illustrated in Figure (#1) how the total tax rate
in California depends on annual gross income. The segmented columns
show how much of the tax rate is federal tax and how much is state
tax. For example, if someone earns, say, $75,000 a year, the tax rate
is still a manageable 25% (if married), but top earners who make half
a million or more are at 45%.

What makes the payroll slip appear friendly, however, is that there
are almost no additional deductions: dental and health insurance,
which are sometimes separate in America, are almost fully covered by
the employer if you have a good job. These are usually so-called
"Managed Care" insurance plans, where the insurance company has
contracts with certain doctors and hospitals that agree to charge
only specific fees for certain services. At AOL and the insurer
United Healthcare, there are three options: In the first option, you
don't pay any health insurance premium yourself, but you can only go
to contracted doctors--in San Francisco, this is not a problem since
there are hundreds of doctors in the "network." However, if you are
somewhere remote and need to see a doctor, it is unlikely that the
nearest one works with the insurance you are covered by, and you
would have to pay everything out of pocket in an emergency. On the
other hand, if you pay an additional $80 per month (for two people),
you are also covered for cases where you need to see a non-contracted
doctor in an emergency, although with a deductible. Our plan is
called "Point-of-Service," as we must always first contact our
primary care physician, who then, if necessary, grants permission for
us to see a specialist. There is a third plan
(Preferred-Provider-Network, PPO), which costs about twice as much
and allows the patient to go directly to any doctor on the insurer's
"preferred list" without consulting the primary care physician. For
each of the plans, a $10 fee must be paid for each visit to the
primary care physician, $20 for a specialist, and $50 for the
emergency room at the hospital.

All in all, the financial settlement for the patient can be quite
nerve-wracking. Most doctors somehow try to charge more than the set
rates, to which the health insurance simply pays the set rate. Then,
the billing services of the medical practices send reminders to the
patients, sometimes rudely pointing out that it is ultimately the
patient's responsibility to pay the full bill. As a result, the
patient has to mediate between the insurance and the medical
practice, and so on and so forth--it's enough to make you tear your
hair out! We once had a case where such a dispute over 80 dollars
dragged on for over a year. It eventually turned out that the billing
service of the medical practice had submitted the case to the wrong
insurance company, but by the time the case was resolved, I had to
call at least five times and explain to totally clueless clerks how
to do their job. I felt like I was in kindergarten.

<pic images/data.ps (#1) Taxes in America>

There is still a social insurance, the "Social Security Tax," which
amounts to 6.2% of income, up to an annual salary of $65,000, and
serves as old-age and disability insurance. However, it only provides
a minimal pension at a welfare level, and no one in their right mind
relies on it; everyone sets aside private money to secure their
retirement financially. The government offers tax advantages with the
so-called 401K plan, allowing you to save money relatively tax-free.
Amusingly, almost all American retirement money is invested in stock
funds, and in the event of a stock market crash, the entire American
pension system would collapse like a house of cards. But in the last
thirty years or so, stocks have only gone up, and everyone assumes
that this will continue for the next thirty years.

There is also a government health insurance: One pays 1.45% of the
gross salary, and then the so-called "Medicare" kicks in at
retirement age (65, 67 for those born after 1960). Additionally,
Medicare provides the most necessary services for welfare recipients
who are chronically ill. Otherwise, there is no mandatory health
insurance, which results in a third of Americans having no health
insurance and, if they become seriously ill, they might really have
to beg -- which can be seen plenty on the streets.

@Z: Religionsfreiheit

<em>Michael</em> 
Oh yes, and there is no church tax, as state and religion are
strictly separated. When I tell my coworkers that in Germany the
church tax is automatically deducted from your salary unless you
explicitly leave the church, I am met with incredulous astonishment.
By the way, America also treats all religions equally. One of my
favorite TV shows is the broadcasts of a televangelist named Benny
Hinn.

@Z: Möbel

<em>Michael</em> 
What we are still having trouble with is finding suitable furniture
for our apartment. Here in America, there are two styles: the rustic
one with a four-meter oak wall unit and leather couch, or things from
the cheap junk brand. I tend to prefer the latter, whereas Angelika
also likes to have nicer things around her. We are still living from
day to day because we never know if we might suddenly have to leave
in a hurry, and then we would have to ship all the stuff at great
expense. Wait, I forgot one style: the
$1000-cabinet-but-the-doors-don't-close-properly style, which is
especially sold in trendy yuppie stores. So far, we haven't managed
to buy a much-needed shelf -- but there is hope in sight: In the
spring of 2000, a huge IKEA is supposed to open in Berkeley! Man, I
can't wait.

@Z: Neuer Fernseh" translates to "new TV" in English.

<em>Michael</em> 
Our TV developed some serious issues after three years, as it decided
to only display channels 7 to 50. However, since in America the upper
channels mostly show junk and shopping shows, while the interesting
things, including our favorite show "Seinfeld," are on the lower
channels, we faced the dilemma of either getting it repaired, which
is quite difficult here due to the scarcity of good craftsmen, or
fully embracing the American throwaway culture and buying a new one.
When Angelika was in Portland, I seized the opportunity and toured
the electronics superstores of Silicon Valley in search of the best
deal. Once, at "The Good Guys," the salesperson had already taken my
name and address, only to then claim that the TV I ordered was not in
stock. Of the super cheap offer, only 3 were available today, and
that was for all the stores in the entire Silicon Valley. The model
could only be delivered in 3 weeks, but he would be happy to show me
the more expensive models. "Yeah, right," I thought, and left the
store.

And you can even negotiate: If you say that a competing store has a
similar offer, the store you are currently in will always offer the
product at the same low price. After lengthy discussions at "Circuit
City," I finally got the TV as cheap as it was advertised. The
salesperson then offered me an extended warranty. If I had paid 100
dollars more, the warranty period would have been extended to 3
years. When I said I didn't want that, the salesperson made a
disgruntled face and asked if I had really thought it through, saying
he wouldn't like to see the set break down, etc. But I stood firm;
I'm not going to buy a warranty for a new product. By the way,
delivery was free, and the old TV was taken away. There was also a
price guarantee: If I managed to find the TV cheaper at a competitor
or even in the same store within 30 days, "Circuit City" would pay me
the difference plus a 10% bonus. I didn't succeed. So far, everything
is working wonderfully--the 83 cm screen diagonal is pure TV
enjoyment!

@Z: Fitness-Studio

<em>Michael</em> 


In the admission fee, two hours with a "personal trainer" were
included, which is the latest trend in America. You don't just go to
the gym; you hire a trainer who exclusively takes care of you,
calculates the heart rate at which exercise is healthy, and creates a
program based on your wishes ("I'd like a flatter stomach and
pumped-up arms like Til Schweiger"). The trainer accompanies you
every step of the way and continuously gives tips on how to have a
more effective workout. If you don't want to jog on the street, you
can run on a treadmill in the fitness center, where a conveyor belt
runs at a preset speed, and you can also set uphill and downhill
routes. The first time I stood on the treadmill, it was too slow for
me at first, and I wildly pressed the "faster" button, not knowing
that the treadmill accelerates very slowly but stores the button
presses. So the treadmill kept getting faster, and I started running
faster and faster until I finally had to hammer on the "slower"
button like crazy to avoid being catapulted out of the treadmill.
While working on the machines, many people read books or listen to
Walkmans, and there are also TVs everywhere. The lighting provides
passersby on the street outside with a funny sight of people pedaling
on treadmills and similar equipment. By the way, my personal trainer
is named "Juan Carlos," just like the King of Spain, and he's
Mexican, tattooed from head to toe, which I found hilariously funny.
And when he showed me all the equipment in the weight room, all the
muscle men there greeted him, all of them grim-looking tough guys I
wouldn't want to meet in the dark. But little Michael wasn't afraid
at all, because he had his personal trainer with him, la la la! Back
to the studio, Angelika, take over!

@Z: Rätsellösung

<em>Angelika</em> 
So, now it's my turn. First, I want to announce the lucky winner of
our last quiz. We warmly congratulate Martin Weishaupt, who was able
to accurately and quickly name all the inhabited islands of Hawaii
(Hawaii or Big Island, Maui, Kauai, Molokai, Oahu, Lanai, Niihau) and
thus secured a real surfer T-shirt from Quiksilver. And this time, we
want to test your worldliness again. Our quiz question is: How do you
say "thank you" in Tahitian? Whoever solves the puzzle will receive a
gift that will enhance your New Year's Eve, because after all, it's
not long until the year 2000 - oh, dear. Until then, I still have to
complete two final projects for my photography courses (10 photos for
each course, perfectly enlarged, retouched, and mounted with a mat),
as two of these "masterpieces" (hmm, yes) will be exhibited again
from January to February in the halls of the University of
California, Berkeley Extension in San Francisco.

@Z: Fotostunde

<em>Angelika</em> 
In the meantime, I am only referred to as the "Egglady" there, since
seven of my still life paintings with eggs have been exhibited (I
mentioned this in the last newsletter). The only problem is that I
have moved past my egg phase and have switched to self-portraits.
We'll see what kind of nickname comes from that. I am still thriving
in my monitor job in the darkroom. It's a lot of fun and ideal in
that I can combine my passion for photography and teaching. Of
course, I still go to the Tenderloin twice a week to see the children
(some of you asked about this in your letters), after all, I was
voted Volunteer Number 1 before the summer holidays, and that kind of
thing comes with responsibilities.

I'm quite busy, actually. I don't think I could work 40 hours
anymore, because then I wouldn't be able to fit in photography, which
has become a pretty important part of my life that I don't want to be
without. Michael always groans because one camera is no longer enough
for me, and I'm eyeing a larger format since such cameras produce a
larger negative. However, they are correspondingly expensive, like
the Mercedes of cameras, so to speak.

@Z: Mayor election in San Francisco

<em>Angelika</em> 
San Francisco, incidentally, has been heavily influenced by the
mayoral election in recent weeks, and there are some interesting
points to note about it. As you may know, Willie Brown was and is the
mayor of San Francisco. He is a member of the American Democratic
Party, which is the more liberal, "left-leaning" party in America. It
is important to note that all the candidates running in San Francisco
belonged to the Democratic Party; a Republican (which is the
conservative party in America, but please do not confuse it with our
Republicans) would have had no chance from the outset in the city's
liberal climate. Many people in San Francisco were quite dissatisfied
with Willie Brown because he failed to address the homelessness
problem and the public transportation system issue, known as "MUNI,"
and he is also considered corrupt. As a result, the city was very
much in election fever.

One must know that the residents of San Francisco are very attached
to their city and most are very engaged when it comes to
city-specific issues. The opposing candidate, Willie Brown, would
also have had a good chance if he hadn't been somewhat given to
alcohol years ago and occasionally raised his hand against his
then-wife during those binges. Although this candidate, named Clint
Reilly, has been sober for 20 years and has gotten his violence
problem under control, it is very difficult to win in America with
this kind of baggage. Voters demand a spotless private life (hence
the uproar over Clinton's affair).

In any case, it was quite certain two weeks before the election that
Willie Brown would probably win, when suddenly Supervisor (something
like a city council member) Tom Ammiano launched a so-called
"write-in campaign" (which means "to write in"). At first, I didn't
quite understand it, but through intensive inquiry, I found out what
it was all about. Since the ballots are usually printed two weeks
before the election, one can still become an eligible candidate
through the "write-in." Write-in simply means that the voter has the
option to manually add a candidate who is not officially listed on
the ballot and cast their vote for that candidate.

This is what happened in the case of Tom Ammiano, and lo and behold,
he managed to become a serious threat to Willie Brown, as Brown would
have needed an absolute majority of the votes to win. Good old Tom
threw a wrench in the works, and so there will be a runoff election
on December 14 between Tom Ammiano and Willie Brown. Tom Ammiano has
a good chance, partly because he is actively supported by the
homosexual community in San Francisco, who are known to be very
politically active in this city. Tom Ammiano is himself homosexual.
However, to be fair, it must be said that Willie Brown also pursues
very liberal policies regarding homosexuality. This is something you
only find in San Francisco: a mayor who does not actively support the
homosexual movement has zero chances. So, it remains exciting.

By the way, all American elections are held on regular weekdays
(Tuesday is usually election day) and not on Sundays like in our
country. No one gets the day off, so long lines often form at polling
stations during lunch breaks. And while I'm at it, I would like to
quickly dispel a widespread misconception. In America, only American
citizens are allowed to vote. A Green Card (which grants unlimited
work and residency permission) does not give one the right to vote,
not even at the local level.

Recently, some of you have been asking how long we've actually been
in San Francisco and how much longer we plan to stay. We've been
living here for three years now. Our AOL visa expires in July 2000.
We definitely want to apply for an extension, which would be valid
for another three years. Keep your fingers crossed for us that we can
stay a little longer, because we still really love it here!

So, now we wish you all a reflective pre-Christmas season. Here is
the quiz question once again: How do you say "thank you" in Tahitian?
As always, the first correct entry wins!

Take care and get in touch in large numbers!

The translation of "Angelika und Michael" to English is "Angelika and
Michael.

