San Francisco, 12-12-1999

<pic images/xmas.ps Christmas greetings from the South Seas>

@Z: 1999 Christmas Letter

<em>Angelika</em> 
Now it's that time again. Christmas is just around the corner, and I
want to sit down and write my Christmas letter. Of course, this year
I can't avoid saying a few words about the upcoming turn of the
millennium. It almost
seems like Christmas is taking a bit of a backseat this year because
everyone is preparing for the big event. Yes, soon we will really
have to write 2000, or, somewhat ridiculously, "00". I remember
practicing writing this year number during my teenage years and
almost recoiling because the image seemed so strange. I also used to
calculate how old I would be in the year 2000--and I was no less
shocked.

So now the countdown is on, and in San Francisco, there's a
sense of disaster in the air; after all, they are expecting an
enormous influx of visitors, as San Francisco is the dream city for
many for the millennium switchover. People want to be here and celebrate. Police
officers, firefighters, and paramedics have had their vacations
canceled leading up to this. The Christmas tree at Union Square will be taken
down early because there are fears that drunk people might try to
climb it. Aid organizations will set up emergency tents to treat
minor injuries on the spot.

Some restaurants on the Embarcadero (a street that runs along the waterfront in
San Francisco) will close on New Year's Eve (and that's in America) because
they fear their guests won't be able to get to them due to the crowds wanting
to watch the fireworks from the Embarcadero. There was also a long discussion
about whether to close the Golden Gate Bridge to car traffic at midnight to
avoid potential accidents with pedestrians. Of course, for weeks, we've also
been bombarded with letters from our bank, the electricity company, our credit
card companies, etc., assuring us that they have everything under control and
that their computers will not crash. At AOL, some employees will probably be
equipped with a beeper, like doctors, to log into the company from home in case
of an emergency and solve any problems that may arise. Up to three days of
additional vacation (an invaluable luxury in America) are offered if you are
willing to sit at home with a beeper.

Of course, the business surrounding the turn of the millennium is
booming as well. At Macy's, a large department store in San
Francisco, you can buy accessories like champagne glasses, balls with
"Year 2000" prints, plastic champagne bottles, etc., to decorate your
Christmas tree appropriately for the event. Everywhere, you can
purchase digital clocks that show you how many days, minutes, and
seconds are left until the year 2000. It feels more like a rocket
launch. However, the absolute hit is time capsules. Often, these are
just simple cans or boxes filled with paper and pencils. The idea is
to write down future wishes and thoughts for subsequent generations,
place them in the plastic container, and bury it. There are, of
course, no limits to imagination. You can also bury objects, photos,
or other memorabilia. If you want the can or box to be dug up again
someday, you should remember the spot well. The idea of the time
capsule reminds me a bit of a project I had to create for one of my
last photography courses, far removed from any millennium hysteria.

We had to create a collage of objects and/or photos that reflected
our personal history. It was about finding things you never part
with, that move with you every time, that often seem inconspicuous
but hold immense sentimental value for the owner. Well, and that
immediately reminded me of our move to America, especially how I
stood at the Munich airport security check on December 30, 1996, with
my carry on luggage bursting at the seams and had to unpack in front of
the security officer. What emerged was not only our beloved camera
with all its accessories and some important documents but also photo
after photo that I had painstakingly reproduced at Saturn Hansa.

There were pictures of our wedding, favorite photos from our
vacations, pictures of our Munich apartment, but most importantly: a
photo of everyone close to us--family and friends alike. The officer
asked me why I had all the photos with me, and I simply said that I
couldn't risk losing them. Shaking his head, he let me through. And I
think, whether it's the year 2000 or not, what matters are the people
you meet and have met, and so we wish you, more than any wild party,
at least one dear person to celebrate the turn of the millennium
with.

In this spirit, we wish you a wonderful Christmas:

Angelika und Michael
