San Francisco, 03-09-2000

@Z: Personalized License Plates

<pic images/pm3.ps Our car with the new license plate>

<em>Michael</em> 
Surely you've noticed that in the USA there are cars with strange
license plates. Normally, it's a number, three letters, and then
three more numbers (e.g., "2ZAP438"), and unlike in Germany, it
doesn't indicate which city the car is from. Instead, only the design
and color of the license plate show which state the car is registered
in. In California, it says "California," in Oregon, there are forests
depicted. Additionally, each state has a slogan: Arizona -- Sunshine
State. Hawaii -- Aloha State. Oregon -- where it rains all year long.
Haha. Just kidding. But: Some license plates don't have the usual
number-letter combinations, but simply read "CLINTON" or "ARNOLD" or
"YEAH." It works like this: Just as you can get the license plate
"M-AX 1964" in Munich by paying a fee to the vehicle registration
office, in America, you can get any (I emphasize: any!) license plate
for your car. This costs, depending on the design, between 20 and 30
dollars a year, which goes to a charitable cause. Now, I've always
wanted to be the "PERL MAN," yes, in fact, Angelika once gave me a
fake license plate with this inscription as a gift -- so I asked
myself: Why not for real?

<pic images/pm2.ps Once again up close: The license plate of the PERL MAN>

I went to the website of the California DMV and checked -- indeed, it
was still available. You can also print out a registration form
online, which you then send by mail to the central DMV office in
Sacramento, California, and barely four weeks later, you receive a
notification in the mailbox that you can pick up the license plate
from a DMV office. I scheduled an appointment by phone, as I already
knew that there is usually a long wait otherwise. This is done with
an automated system, where you instruct a computer on the other end
to find an appointment. You then receive a confirmation number, which
you use to show up at the DMV office at the suggested time. The man
at the counter almost burst out laughing when he opened the envelope
with my new license plates, which had "PERL MAN" written in large
letters. He asked if it referred to the rock band "PEARL JAM," and I
explained to him that it was a reference to a programming language.

<pic images/plate.ps The internet software currently still allows super funny license plates.>

I also received a new vehicle registration certificate -- everything
must be in order -- and went outside to attach the new license plates
to the car with a screwdriver I had brought with me. Since then, I am
the "PERL MAN." Everyone at Netscape knows who's coming. But there
are others: The head of the computer maintenance department at
Netscape, who has been around for a while and has earned quite well,
drives a Porsche Carrera (which costs about $80,000 here) with the
license plate "THX AOL" ("Thanks, AOL"). A former colleague of mine
is a specialist in the Java programming language and drives around in
his BMW M3 with "MMM JAVA" on the plate. Yes, you have to have fun.
If you want to find out which license plates are still available in
California, just check out http://plates.ca.gov/search. You'll see --
"PERL MAN" is gone, you were too late!

@Z: A New Kind Of Calendar

<pic images/franklin.ps The Franklin Planner in Use>

<em>Michael</em> 
Recently, I attended a full-day course on time management at
Netscape, which I had signed up for. The company "Franklin/Covey" offers
courses where you learn how to use their calendar system. You learn
how to manage your time effectively, prioritize tasks, and
distinguish between important and unimportant matters to achieve more
in less time. It was an impressive presentation.

Typically American, the course was not just some boring lecture but was filled
with, yes, I would even say, moving moments. For instance, when the instructor
asked us to anonymously write on small cards what we would do if we had more
time. Later, after we had almost forgotten about the collected cards, she
played a video that illustrated how short life is and how important it is to
focus on the important things. When the video ended, the screen went dark, but
the music continued, and she began reading the contents of the cards. There
were things like "If I had more time, I would climb Half Dome in Yosemite
Park." "If I had more time, I would create the most visited website in the
world." "If I had more time, I would travel all over Europe with my family."
"If I had more time, I would write a science fiction novel." One of the cards
was, of course, mine, and you can guess which one. Anyway -- I was moved.

And I liked the calendar so much that since then, I've
been running around with a planner larger than A5, writing
everything, yes, everything in it. It's really clever, this thing; I
actually accomplish more now and forget nothing because everything is
in the calendar. The essential point is that you don't separate
personal events from business ones, so a wedding anniversary or a
birthday gift is just as important as professional matters. For those
interested: You can order the stuff at http://www.franklincovey.com,
it's not exactly cheap, but very well made. Of course, it's only
suitable for people with self-discipline who don't shy away from
sitting down at midnight to check off the task list of the past day
and go through the tasks for the next day, as well as creating a
weekly plan with the most important goals once a week. Angelika also
jumped on the bandwagon and is demanding the same calendar, which is
only available in a specific store in San Francisco. Unfortunately,
she hasn't yet added this task to a corresponding list due to the
lack of a calendar system, so this project is still awaiting
completion, but she's working on it... (Note from the newsletter
editorial team: On Angelika's birthday on March 2nd, a small calendar
was on the gift table...).

@Z: Crazy About Sneakers

<pic images/shoes.ps Michael's sneakers>

<em>Michael</em> I am known for only wearing sneakers these days. Of course,
not just any cheap shoes from the supermarket, but top high-tech sneakers from
Mizuno. Forget Adidas. Forget Nike. Forget Reebok. I hereby declare the "Mizuno
Waverider" as the shoe of the season. Of the year. Maybe even of the decade. I
need to elaborate a bit on my sneaker obsession. Here in America, everyone
wears sneakers, from teenagers to the elderly, it's completely normal. And if
you work in the software industry, sneakers are more than just footwear. If
you're a programmer, you wear sneakers. Period. If you work in sales or
marketing, you don't. Just like in Germany, where people distinguish between
those who wear ties and those who don't.  The latest insider term, by the way,
is "Marketroid" for marketing people, a mix of marketing person and "android,"
meaning robot. Just a side note.

Back to the sneakers: More than a year ago, I bought a pair of "Mizuno
Waverider" and was absolutely thrilled. Sneakers have a life cycle of about
twelve months for me, so I recently set out to buy a new pair as the old ones
were slowly reaching the stage of decay. But, oh dear! The darn sneaker chain
"Footlocker," which usually offers a pretty good selection, simply didn't carry
the model anymore. So I desperately tried to remember which branch of the shoe
giant I had bought the pair from back then. And then it hit me: at the Valley
Fair Shopping Center in San Jose, where we shopped with Sylvia and Richard at the time.
One weekend, when we were once again hanging around the South Bay, we drove
past this shopping center, and I persuaded Angelika to take a look inside --
and lo and behold: there was still a small "Footlocker" that even had a pair of
"Waveriders" in stock.  Eagerly, I asked the salesperson if they had a pair in
my size 10 1/2 (size 44 in German standards), and he disappeared into the
stockroom, shortly returning with just such a pair. Even though I had arrived
in "Mizuno Waverider" sneakers of the same size, I quickly tried on the new
ones, and, behold, they fit just like the old ones. I was thrilled. Cautiously,
I asked the young salesperson if he also had a second pair in the same size.
Again, he briefly disappeared into the stockroom and brought out a second pair.
I rejoiced. He asked if this was the best sneaker model of my life, and I said
"yes." The joy was certainly great, and I think the salesperson was allowed to
take the rest of the afternoon off. I thought I heard champagne corks popping
in the stockroom as we left the store. By the way, my new Perl book will have a
small Mizuno logo on the cover with the note "Written in Mizuno Shoes." Oh yes.
Well, you believe anything.

@Z: Schafkopf in the Valley

<pic images/schaf.ps Eight trumps in hand -- probably the easiest game in Schafkopf.>

<em>Michael</em> 
I had already told you about my colleague Dieter, who lives in Santa
Cruz and also works at Netscape -- you know, the one with the
Bavarian flag in his cubicle. It turns out that Dieter also knows
Christian, who came from Bavaria to the USA with Siemens and now
works at Netscape. Among the two thousand employees at Netscape,
there are, believe it or not, three Germans. We all met for lunch at
a Mexican burrito place, and it turned out that Christian also
studied at the Technical University of Munich and often played cards
in the cafeteria during his studies (he studied almost at the same
time as I did) -- which your dear narrator, ahem, also loved to do.
So we planned to find a fourth Bavarian, Ernst from Siemens, and
persuade him to play Schafkopf in Silicon Valley. A pub was
immediately chosen: "Hardy's Bavaria" in Sunnyvale, where a Bavarian
is the host and, according to insider circles, you are allowed to
play cards -- possibly the only pub in all of America where that's
possible.

<pic images/pit.ps The cheerful Schafkopf group in Silicon Valley>

For three weeks, emails went back and forth, and there was always
someone who couldn't make it. Then finally, on a Monday, suddenly
everyone was available. Only problem: "Hardy's Bavaria" is closed on
Mondays! So we played at Christian's house in Cupertino. For those of
you in the know: Sauspiel 10 cents, Solo 25, runner in Solo from
three, in Wenz from two, everyone can double up, no color Wenz, with stock
if no one plays, shot takes over. A successful evening... and now
Christian has set up the mailing list schafkopf@netscape.com at
Netscape, where it's decided when the next game round will take
place.

So, if you're ever in the area and know how to play Schafkopf,
sign up. I can only say that I play as well as ever, and I was able
to keep up with the skilled card players who even counted points and
(!) trumps, even though I still play "by feel." There's nothing like
a six-year intensive college training! An American colleague at Netscape
recently asked me how long it takes to become a reasonably good
Schafkopf player, and after some thought, I replied that it would
take seven or eight years of continuous training. Indignantly, he
turned away! No patience, these people. But honestly, it's really
true. You learn the rules faster, of course, but to actually win, it
takes more. Much more. Oh, yes. Ha! I can tell you...

@Z: Internet Connection in the Space Age

<em>Michael</em> 
In the internet age, there is, of course, no resting or hesitating --
you always have to stay one step ahead of the competition. And from
Europe (specifically from a gentleman in Switzerland), I heard some
mild mockery regarding my internet connection. Because I was still
using a regular modem, while nowadays (greetings to Oldenburg: even
ISDN is Stone Age technology!) people have either cable modems or
DSL. "Enough!" I shouted and called our telephone company "Pacific
Bell."

After being on hold for 20 minutes, a friendly lady took my
order for DSL. However, when I mentioned that I wanted the internet
connection not on Windows 98 but on the mega-trendy operating system
Linux, she got a bit flustered and consulted a specialist, who
confirmed that it was no problem. It should be noted that Linux is
currently being discussed as a real (and free!) alternative to
Microsoft products like Windows 95 or 98 or whatever. Not a day goes
by without it appearing in the newspaper or on the TV news. The
phenomenon: This thing was developed by people on the internet in
their free time and made available to the public for free -- it still
has its rough edges, but this model of software development, where
people sit down in their free time and contribute to the "community"
(the internet community), is making its way into the press. By the
way, the author of these lines has been using Linux for about 8 years
and develops things in his free time, which he gives to the
"community" without charging money. But enough hype!

In any case,
Linux is still not as well-known as Windows -- but the lady from Pac
Bell said it was fine. In 14 days, someone would come by, and I could
choose whether I wanted to wait for the technician in the morning
(8-12) or in the afternoon (12-5). It should be noted that "Pac Bell"
here in California has about the same ring as saying "Siemens" in
Germany. Oops, I meant to say "Deutsche Bundespost." But I heard that
they were privatized too. Anyway, you know what I mean. A week later,
on a Friday, I was suddenly told that someone would come by on
Monday. I was allowed to work from home on Monday and could wait for
the service person. He came at 2 PM and had heard of "Linux" but said
he lacked the experience to install DSL on it. Fine, I said, then
let's do it on Windows, which I run as a second operating system on
my machine. That went smoothly -- almost, because he injured his
finger while cutting a cable, but luckily I had band-aids and
disinfectant at home, and he was treated on the spot. I got a modem
that looks like a warp generator from the Starship Enterprise, and
through the regular phone line, both a data signal for the computer
and normal phone traffic come through -- in short: you can make phone
calls while the computer is online.

Since we have a second phone
line, now even two people can make calls simultaneously while one
browses the internet! And you surf the internet about 50 times faster
than with a modem. It's really impressive: you click somewhere and --
bam! -- the page is there. This is, of course, also because the most
important parts of the internet are located here in California, and,
for example, Yahoo is just a few miles around the corner. Oh yes:
with the help of the internet, I was able to set it up on Linux as
well, no problem. Naturally, because people on the internet helped
me. For free. If there is a society of the 21st century anywhere,
it's here. In cyberspace. By the way, this newsletter is being
created on Linux. And so are all my magazine articles and books. Back
to the DSL connection: I had to sign a one-year contract, costing $49
a month. Well, I can deduct it from my taxes. Not from regular income
tax, since the concept of work-related expenses is foreign to
Americans, but because of my writing activities, whose modest
earnings I also have to pay taxes on here in the USA, but that's just an
aside.

A few days later, I was happily surfing the internet at top speed,
when I heard a radio advertisement from Pacific Bell during my drive
from Mountain View to San Francisco: As a special offer, DSL was now
available for only $39 a month (that's $10 less!) if ordered by April
30th. Furious, I called Pacific Bell the next day, after all, this is
America. "This is America!" is the phrase used to make it clear that
things are possible here that would only cause raised eyebrows in
Germany: "Have it your way" is one of these principles. In a
restaurant, the menu is seen as merely a well-intentioned suggestion,
and you order according to your preferences: "I would like the steak,
but instead of mashed potatoes, I'd prefer French fries, and for the
salad, just tomatoes on a separate plate, blue cheese dressing, and
also some rye bread." In the Suppenküche, the German restaurant in
San Francisco, I once saw an American who ordered dumplings on a
separate plate with some sausage dish because he had tried them
somewhere before. Imagine this scene in the Schwabinger Weißbierhaus
in Munich -- the waiter would be dancing the tango. "This is America"
also means that you can return anything and everything with the
flimsiest of excuses. You say, "My wife doesn't like the new VCR,"
and it is promptly taken back without question, and the purchase
price is refunded. And "This is America" also means that I called
Pacific Bell the next day and said that I didn't see why I should
have to pay $49 while all new customers were paying $39 -- and
presto, the lady on the phone said she would immediately change my
contract to $39. Well, we all got lucky there.

@Z: Electric toothbrush

<pic images/sonicare.ps The new toothbrush>

<em>Michael</em> 
And here's some more exciting news. You've all been waiting for this.
Sit down. Here it comes: We bought a new electric toothbrush. "Oh my,
oh my," you might say now, but it really is exciting: The company
"Sonicare" manufactures an electric toothbrush that moves its brush
head so quickly that it creates ultrasonic waves. I bought it right
away at Costco, only a hundred dollars! Brush your teeth with it for
two minutes and you'll feel like you've just come from the dentist,
who treated you with that thing that always goes "eee-eee-eee." I
keep licking my teeth all day, it's that good. Buy it immediately!
More information is available at http://www.sonicare.com.

@Z: New Year's Eve 2000

<pic images/sfworks1.ps Year 2000 fireworks in San Francisco ...>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Enough with the commercial chatter! Here comes Angelika: Surely
you've already heard that San Francisco was also spared from the
predicted catastrophes and entered the new millennium well (including
the narrators). Due to the astronomical prices everywhere and the
announced crowds, Michael and I stayed at home for our traditional
fondue in cozy togetherness. It was lovely! At midnight, we could
watch the gigantic fireworks from our window (with the music "I Lost
My Heart in San Francisco" playing in the background, of course). The
whole city was glowing.

It's pretty clear that we can never move out of our apartment because
the view from our window is simply priceless. It was also funny when,
at 11 PM, our Mexican neighbor rang the doorbell with his daughter
and a canister of tequila in tow to toast with us. He had smuggled
the plastic container in his suitcase from Mexico, where he was on a
home vacation with his family. Michael was initially worried about
going blind from the moonshine, but -- as you can see -- we survived
the wonderfully smooth tequila just fine. On New Year's Day, Michael
was on call for AOL in the morning, meaning he had to be reachable by
phone to log into the company via our home computer in case any Y2K
problems would arise. But, surprise, surprise, nothing happened, and no one
needed the top hacker. As compensation, there was an extra day off,
which we will use in March for a long weekend. Hooray!

<pic images/sfworks2.ps ... from our living room.>

Regarding New Year's Eve: The New Year's Eve surprise package was won
by Martin Weishaupt. He managed to solve the November quiz question,
"How do you say 'thank you' in Tahitian?" Many of you guessed "merci"
because Tahitians speak French as an official language -- but we were
looking for the expression in the native language: it's "mauruuru,"
as you can find out with a quick internet search. We warmly
congratulate the lucky winner!

@Z: Photo News

<pic images/ucb.ps The newspaper advertisement for the photo exhibition>

<em>Angelika</em> 
As part of one of my courses at Berkeley University, an exhibition
took place again in January and February: Two of my photos were
hanging on the wall. This time, they were cleverly arranged
black-and-white self-portraits that showed some skin without
revealing too much. I found it highly amusing, and of course, I won't
spoil the fun by providing photos. That would be going too far!

@Z: Mayoral Elections And Same-Sex Marriage

<pic images/22.ps Advertisement for Proposition 22 in a neighbor's front yard.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Because today I particularly want to focus on political topics: The
mayor of San Francisco will continue to be Willie Brown --
challenger Tom Ammiano lost the runoff election on December 14th (see
November newsletter). I find that very unfortunate. I would have
preferred Tom Ammiano as mayor. It's a real pity when you aren't
allowed to vote yourself. That's when you realize what a privilege it
is to be able to vote. I have long been in favor of allowing
foreigners who live in a particular country for an extended period to
vote, at least on a local level. And I don't mean this just in
relation to the USA, but quite generally. I am also firmly convinced
that elections in the USA would turn out completely differently if
all Green Card holders (American permanent work and residence
permits) were allowed to vote (just a quick reminder: even in the
USA, only American citizens are allowed to vote).

But that's just a side note. Back to Tom Ammiano: It is suspected
that he couldn't succeed in the election because, for many voters, it
was too much that he openly acknowledged his homosexuality. It's like
saying: We are liberal, but a homosexual mayor is a bit too much. I'm
not sure if that's true, because San Francisco is known as the
stronghold of the homosexual movement, and Tom Ammiano already holds
a high political office in the city council, which he continues to
hold. On the other hand, unfortunately, one hears and reads more
frequently about discriminatory attacks against homosexuals lately.
Especially the American political right (and I'm not referring to
right-wing extremists here), which is strongly supported by various
American churches, has declared war on the homosexual movement. In my
opinion, this is because conservatives feel extremely threatened as
homosexuals suddenly demand the right to marriage and family. For
years, the homosexual movement in San Francisco and elsewhere was
more about being tolerated and accepted--but also distinguishing
themselves from the bourgeois society. Nowadays, more and more
same-sex couples want to marry or have decided to have children
through adoption or artificial insemination, meaning they want to
start normal families.

In this light, the so-called "Knight Initiative" should also be seen. As you
may know, a new president will be elected in America this year. Therefore,
primaries are currently taking place in various states. On March 7, it's
California's turn. This date is not only used for the primaries but also to
vote on so-called "propositions" (comparable to referendums).  Propositions are
numbered for brevity, and you see signs everywhere promoting "No on 5" and "Yes
on 42." The Knight Initiative ("Proposition 22") was introduced by a senator
named Knight. Knight wants voters to support the inclusion of the following
sentence in California's law books: "Only marriage between a man and a woman is
valid or recognized in California."

Now, it must be noted that neither in California nor in any other
American state is same-sex marriage currently legalized, meaning the
statement is actually redundant. Therefore, critics believe that
there are two entirely different motives behind the Knight
Initiative. Firstly, there is a concern that other states might
legalize same-sex marriage in the near future (this could indeed
happen in the state of Vermont), and then California would be
obliged, under current law, to recognize a marriage between two
homosexuals, for example, one that was conducted in Vermont. Hence,
the idea of the Knight Initiative is to explicitly state once again
that only a marriage between a woman and a man is valid in
California. Secondly, many fear that the Knight Initiative aims to
undermine, so to speak, the achievements that same-sex couples have
in most cities in California even without a state marriage, such as
the ability to adopt children, or for the same-sex partner to be
considered like a married spouse for health insurance (a common
practice in all Silicon Valley companies and in San Francisco), as
well as visitation rights in hospitals, meaning being regarded as a
family member, etc. Incidentally, Knight himself has a son who openly
acknowledges his homosexuality and publicly opposes his father's
initiative. This raises the suspicion that the father cannot cope
with the fact that his own son is homosexual. It's all very sad. The
Knight Initiative is also heavily financially supported by the Mormon
Church (among others), which is known to be very wealthy in the USA.
Money plays a crucial role in getting referendums passed. This
financial involvement can indeed have consequences, as churches are
largely exempt from taxes. They are not allowed to actively finance
political initiatives with their church funds. But that's just an
aside. One can only hope that California voters will vote against the
Knight Initiative. We will let you know in our next newsletter.
(Editor's note: Shortly before the newsletter went to press, voters
voted 60% in favor and 40% against the proposal. The sentence will
therefore be included in the legal text.)

@Z: Presidential Elections

<em>Angelika</em> 
Then you might have also heard in Germany that Bill Clinton gave his
last State of the Union address, as his term is soon coming to an
end. As mentioned above, there are presidential elections in America.
This State of the Union report takes place annually and, as the name
suggests, it's about the current state of America. Naturally, the
President also uses the speech to present what he intends to do in
the future. Clinton will soon have to step down, as a president in
America can only be elected twice in a row and then has to make way
for a new one. Nevertheless, he threw around reform ideas -- which
means absolutely nothing, as Clinton has often been unable to
implement his plans, since the American Congress is known to have a
Republican majority, which has somewhat different ideas than the
Democratic president.

As you might notice, I followed the speech
attentively on television. More precisely, I stared at the screen,
fascinated by how different such a speech is compared to one in the German
Bundestag. First of all, I was once again unpleasantly struck by the
fact that in the USA, it is completely normal and even a must to be
patriotic. Following the motto: America, the promised land, the
supernation that everyone admires. Of course, Clinton has every
reason to boast a little, after all, his record is not bad: The state
budget is showing a surplus, the country is experiencing the longest
economic boom in its history. Crime has decreased, the unemployment
rate is extremely low, much lower than in Germany. Millions of new
jobs have been created. But the whole thing also has a price, and
many things are extremely amiss. Among other things, the healthcare
and education systems (especially shameful when you have a budget
surplus). And many of the newly created jobs offer extremely poor
pay and no social security. It was also interesting that Clinton
appeared quite emotional. You could often see tears in his eyes, both
from emotion and from sadness. Naturally, he also thanked his wife
Hillary for her tireless support, which seemed a bit strange, as his
affair with intern Monica Lewinsky is not yet forgotten. Some cynics
even suspect that Hillary Clinton will immediately file for divorce
as soon as Clinton's term is over. It will be interesting to see.

@Z: Benetton and the death penalty

<pic images/benn.ps Death row inmates in Benetton advertisement

<em>Angelika</em> 
Currently, the advertising campaign of Italian textile company
Benetton is a hot topic here. Benetton is known for shocking the
world with extraordinary and provocative advertising campaigns. This
time, photos of death row inmates in U.S. prisons are making their
way around the globe. Benetton aims to draw attention to the issue of
the death penalty in the United States. The focus is not on whether
the inmates might be innocent, but on the general question of whether
a state has the right to use death as a form of punishment. The
prosecutor's office in the state of Missouri has already filed a
lawsuit against Benetton, and the American department store chain
"Sears" has decided to stop offering Benetton clothing in its stores.

I just hope that Benetton remains steadfast. Anyone who wants to view
the photos can find them at www.benetton.com. Here, too, reference is
made once again to the election campaign. No presidential candidate
can "afford" to be against the death penalty if they want to win.
George Bush, the Republican presidential candidate and governor
(similar to our German Ministerpräsident) of the state of Texas, recently
rejected the clemency request of a woman over 60, whose death
sentence was therefore carried out. It really felt like he was using
that for his campaign. By the way, Texas is also the state with the
most executions in 1999. A very macabre and sad first place, although
Bush certainly sees it differently. It really makes you anxious and
worried when you consider that he is very likely to become the next
President of the USA.

@Z: Who Wants To Marry a Millionaire?

<pic images/milli.ps Freshly married on TV ...>

<em>Angelika</em> 
And then we were allowed to witness the pinnacle of tastelessness on
American television. However, this will certainly not prevent German
broadcasters from producing a similar show for the German market, since
every American show has always been copied, no matter how bad it may
be. The show was titled "Who Wants to Marry a Multi-Millionaire?" and
was broadcast by the American network Fox. Fifty women competed
against each other. The prize was to marry the super-rich bachelor in
front of the camera. One of the rules is that none of the women are
allowed to have met or even seen this potential husband beforehand.
The final round is, so to speak, the highlight of the show. This is
when the identity of the multi-millionaire is revealed for the first
time, as he appears on stage and proposes to the woman he likes best
among the finalists. And then, of course, they get married right
there on the spot. It's legally binding, as the show takes place in
the state of Nevada (where Las Vegas is), where such things are
possible.

<pic images/schmooch.ps ... and immediately schmoopi-schmoopi!

I emphasize once again: The woman only knows that the man has money.
Game rounds include, for example, women parading on stage in bikinis
while Mr. Multimillionaire awards points. Family members and friends
are also allowed to give points. In hindsight, the whole thing might
not have turned out to be such a brilliant idea after all. The
ratings were huge, but Mr. Multimillionaire had already faced a
lawsuit for beating up one of his girlfriends. His wealth is also
smaller than stated. It seems the network didn't do its homework
properly. The marriage will definitely be annulled. The American
media were on cloud nine, as they could report on this event for
days. In the end, the jilted bride agreed to do an interview with
"Good Morning America." And she actually said that she only
participated to get a paid vacation (she meant the honeymoon). How
stupid can one be? And was the show's title perhaps: "How to Train to
Be a Prostitute?" For those interested in the story: A rich selection
of "links" leading to reports from various news agencies can be found
at http://pw1.netcom.com/~warnerwa/rockwell.html.

@Z: About Visa and Green Card

<em>Angelika</em> 
But now for something completely different: As we have mentioned
several times, our visa expires at the end of July this year. Since
we would like to stay a bit longer, we have applied for an extension,
which still hasn't been processed, as the American immigration authority
is not exactly the fastest. In recent weeks, everyone has been
looking towards America again, as Chancellor Schröder announced
plans to bring foreign computer experts to Germany. We laughed
ourselves silly when suddenly the term "Green Card" was on everyone's
lips in Germany. It seems to be particularly trendy to use American
terms, regardless of whether they are used correctly or incorrectly.

In America, a Green Card refers to a permanent work and residence
permit. However, Gerhard Schröder only has temporary permits in
mind. That's exactly what Michael has here, and it's called an H-1B
visa. We didn't find it funny at all that the German press acted as
if one could get a Green Card in America on a silver platter.
Especially when you are going through the highly complicated, lengthy
Green Card process yourself and are also anxiously waiting for your
visa extension, a huge amount of anger arises over so much
misinformation. Therefore, I want to do a bit of educational work.

I'll save how to get a Green Card in America for the next newsletter.
Today's episode is about how the H-1B visa works. The H-1B visa is
issued to highly qualified foreigners. Initially, you get it for
three years, with the possibility of extending it for another three
years. In total, you can work in the USA on an H-1B visa for six
years. After that, no amount of begging and pleading will help; there
is no further extension. If you don't have a Green Card in hand after
six years, you must leave the country.

This visa program was
introduced in 1990 to fill positions for which no Americans can be
found, meaning you only have a chance to work on an H-1B visa if you
have a profession that is in short supply in America (e.g., software
engineer). One of the prerequisites for obtaining this type of visa
is having a high level of education (i.e., a completed degree) and/or
relevant professional experience. As mentioned, Americans also want
to bring highly qualified people into the country, not unskilled
workers. Unfortunately, the prejudice still persists that it is easy
to complete the necessary paperwork. Completely wrong! For the
H-1B visa, the "Department of Labor" (American labor authority) first
checks whether there really is no American available for the
advertised job. The American employer applying for the visa for the
foreign employee must demonstrate that they are paying the
industry-standard wage and even post the job offer within the company
for two weeks so that other employees have the opportunity to object.

If the Department of Labor then gives its consent, all required documents
are submitted in a second step to the immigration authority, which
then checks whether everything is in order. It takes at least six to
eight weeks to complete all the paperwork, during which time you are
not allowed to work. The immigration authority also issues only a
certain number of H-1B visas per year to limit the influx of foreign
workers. Currently, 115,000 visas are issued per year. If the quota
is exhausted, which is currently the case after just a few months,
you're out of luck. You have to wait until the next year.

There are
so many open positions in the computer industry here that companies
would like to hire even more foreign specialists and are advocating
for an increase in the visa cap. The issue has become so pressing
that it has even become a campaign topic, as companies are losing
money because positions cannot be filled. Another thing to consider
with the H-1B visa: It can only be applied for once you have found an
American company willing to employ you, as the company submits the
application. This means that the work permit is only valid for this
company and the specifically advertised job. If you lose that job,
you must leave the country within 10 days, and the company is obliged
to pay for the flight. Or if you no longer like the job and look for
another one, the bureaucratic process starts all over again, meaning
a new H-1B visa must be applied for. By the way, my visa is called
H-4 and, as you already know, allows me to stay in the USA--but not
to work.

So, enough for today! We hope that we, your intrepid newsletter
reporters, were able to whisk you away from everyday life for a few
minutes and delight you with insider information from the land of
unlimited possibilities. We will stay a little longer in sunny
California--not just because of the weather, but because we love the
daily adventure.

Until next time!

Angelika und Michael
