San Francisco, 11-1-2000

@Z: Hawaii: Big Island

<pic images/bi20.ps (#1) A lava flow begins to flow on Big Island, Hawaii.>

<em>Michael</em> Hello at home, we went on a short vacation again -- an entire
one and a half weeks, simply incredible! Since I've been with AOL for three
years now, I get a full three weeks of vacation instead of the usual two.
Where to? Hawaii, of course, this time to "Big Island," the largest of the
Hawaiian Islands. Not to be confused with the most populated island, Oahu,
where the TV series "Magnum" is set and where the capital, Honolulu, is
located. No, we are always drawn to places off the beaten path, so Big Island
with its active volcanoes was just right for us. But more on that later. By the
way, this time there are a bunch of pictures that can only be truly enjoyed on
the internet at http://usarundbrief.com, where they are available in color and
can be enlarged if you click on them. It's worth throwing a few deutschmarks at
the German Telekom to cover the cost! There you go, the lava flowing in red, the
waves foaming in white! Click diligently on the following pictures!

Of course, on Big Island, just like everywhere else in Hawaii, there
are those beaches with almost snow-white sand and blue-green water,
which is at a delightful 22 degrees Celsius, allowing you to frolic in
it for hours. In the fall, the ocean brings pleasantly high waves,
and we discovered a new passion: surfing the waves without a board,
called "body-surfing," because you surf with your body. You let
yourself float in the water, wait for a wave about 1.5 to 2 meters
high to come along, swim quickly, and let the wave carry you up to 50
meters to the shore. To achieve this, years of training are, of
course, necessary, so don't try this at home, kids! We certainly had
our fun and spent at least an hour in the water every day.

<pic images/bi9.ps Michael gasps for air after a wave hit him hard in the evening light.>

<pic images/bi12.ps Angelika realizes just in time that the wave is too high to surf and dives underneath it.>

The waves sometimes come in very powerfully and often break
unexpectedly, so you have to be very careful and, if necessary,
quickly dive underneath. If you don't do this, the masses of water
crash down on you, and for the next five seconds, you are tossed
around underwater without any control. This is not for the
faint-hearted. Swimming is impossible at these moments; the current
is totally chaotic and wild. The only thing that helps is to hold
your breath and cross your arms over your head to avoid accidentally
hitting a rock or a lost surfboard. Once everything has settled down,
you quickly figure out which way is up and surface. And don't forget
about the next incoming wave!

Of course, the attentive newsletter readers are already pulling their
hair and asking: "How were these photos taken? Did these crazy people
take the expensive camera into the water?" No, the SLR stayed on the
beach this time. We simply bought a waterproof disposable camera for
15 dollars--really brilliant, that thing! It doesn't look like much,
but it takes pretty decent pictures, already contains the film, and
you return the whole plastic thing for developing.

<pic images/bi11.ps Angelika snorkeling>

<pic images/bi3.ps (#5) A giant turtle in the water almost at the beach.>

Furthermore, on Big Island, you can rent diving masks and fins
for little money and then snorkel around in the water. There are plenty of
colorful tropical fish, which are also quite large; 50 cm is not
uncommon. As a special attraction, there are these giant turtles down
there, which can grow up to a meter long (see Figure (#5)). With a
diving mask and fins, you can swim very close to them. They don't
care about the tourists at all and continue to calmly to snap up the algae
between the stones. They get tossed around quite a bit by the waves
because they swim very slowly, but that doesn't seem to bother them.

But the real highlight on Big Island is the active volcanoes. The
island has seen dangerous, bubbling lava flows several times in the
past. There are roads that have been simply buried by the glowing
lava on its way to the sea and have not been restored since. Formerly
inhabited, then evacuated villages are now ghost towns. The lava,
which is molten rock, flows very slowly during an eruption, allowing
people to usually get to safety before their homes and settlements
are buried under the masses, which then slowly harden into black
stone.

<pic images/bi29.ps The crater of the volcano>

<pic images/bi18.ps It's steaming!>

In certain regions, you can purchase land on Big Island very cheaply;
sometimes you pay only a few thousand dollars for an acre that is
very close to the threatened areas. No one knows when the next lava
flow will come, and then it'll be: This would have been your prize! Once, we
drove around at night in the southeast of the island, where the lava
last raged. There, we saw the last hippies in all of America. Rumor has it
that the FBI also hides people here who fall under the Witness
Protection Program, meaning "key witnesses" who no longer dare to
mingle with the public because of their court testimonies.

<pic images/bi16.ps The volcano smokes and hisses all over the place.>

<pic images/bi8.ps Half of the island looks like a plowed field.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
This time, Michael actually shows his generous side and lets me
describe our spectacular hike to the still-flowing lava--one of the
most adventurous and impressive experiences we've had so far. Michael
already mentioned that Big Island is practically made up entirely of
volcanoes, which determine the local way of life, and residents
there take everything a bit more calmly and leisurely: The lava flows extremely
slowly. That's why it usually hardens again right away as it makes
its way. I must admit that I am not very knowledgeable in geology
(geologists among you, please forgive me if I don't use terms like
"lava," "magma," and the like quite accurately) and until now, I
believed that volcanic eruptions are always violent, bubbling, and
frothing with huge fountains of fire, and everything screams: "Save
yourself if you can!"

In Hawaii, it's quite the opposite: A volcano erupts, and everyone
sets out to witness the magnificent natural spectacle. I was also
completely speechless when I learned from the travel guide that the
lava still flowing today originates from the eruption of the
"Kilauea" volcano in 1983. A lava flow lasting 17 years is an
absolute record, even for Hawaii. However, the lava doesn't always
flow on the surface; it often makes its way to the sea underground.
But we were lucky: When we visited the national park, it was flowing
above ground.

<pic images/bi19.ps (#10) The lava flow from intro photo continues to flow further.>

Anyone who has been to an American national park knows the phenomenon
that they are usually designed in such a way that many of the
attractions can be easily reached by car, and you generally only have
to walk a few feet. This has always bothered Michael and me, so we
usually go on extensive hikes to escape the crowds. Now, the "Hawaii
Volcanoes National Park" can be experienced as a
"Drive-Thru-Experience." Of course, we didn't want that, so we
decided to hike to the flowing lava.

You can only get there if you're willing to walk 5 to 6 hours (round trip) on
an unmarked path over hardened lava parallel to the ocean.  We weren't
initially deterred by the fact that the hiking trail is considered extremely
dangerous and that the park rangers (similar to forest rangers) don't directly
prohibit the hike but strongly advise against it. But by now, we're used to
American being overly cautious because they're afraid of of being sued. This
does sometimes lead absurd safety measures. I just want to remind you that the
manual for our American microwave actually states that the device is not
suitable for drying your cat.

We were a bit puzzled, however, that our favorite travel guide
"Lonely Planet," which usually doesn't buy into the American security
paranoia, kept emphasizing that one should only attempt the hike if
they are in top shape and well-prepared. We started to ponder a bit
when a ranger--incidentally a German landscape architecture student
doing an internship--revealed to us that the day before, a man had
died of heart failure on the hike, and she herself had to be treated
in the hospital for exhaustion and a glass particle that had flown
into her eye from the smoke cloud (despite wearing sunglasses). And
this German woman in question was at least 10 years younger than us
and didn't exactly give a frail impression.

<pic images/bi21.ps Angelika is almost melting from the heat. The molten rock on the right is really glowing.>

It should be noted with some reservation that the hiker who did not
return alive from the hike had set out alone at night, which is
perhaps something one should not do. However, many people set out
after nightfall to see the lava, which naturally glows particularly
magnificently at night. Since Michael and I already have trouble
staying in our lane on the brightly lit highway at night (we are both
somewhat night-blind), we decided to steer clear of this idea.
Stumbling over black lava for five to six hours, armed only with a
flashlight, didn't seem so dreamy to us--adventure or not.

<pic images/bi22.ps Beneath our feet flows the glowing lava. Or is it called magma?>

Well, we decided to follow the rangers' recommendations to the letter
and set off very early in the morning to avoid walking in
the midday heat. A wise decision, as it turned out later, because
black lava heats up well and, of course, there is no shade due to the
lack of plants or trees, not to mention the heat emitted by the
glowing lava. So we armed ourselves with 3 liters of water per person
(and actually returned with less than half a liter in total), energy
bars, an energy drink, sunglasses to avoid getting glass particles in
our eyes, scarves as mouth protection against the fumes near the lava
flow, rain jackets (the only thing we didn't need), a first aid kit,
and of course our good hiking boots, which have been accompanying us on every hike
so far.  Mine had to be retired after this one, as they were already a
bit old and the heat from the lava finished them off.

I even put on the recommended long pants, a real concession in
Hawaii, as you can easily fall on the hardened lava (as mentioned,
there is no marked path) and it is razor-sharp. However, Michael
couldn't be persuaded to part with his beloved shorts. Guess who came
back with a band-aid? That's right: me, but not on the knee, rather
on the elbow, as I scraped myself a bit on the hard lava while
changing a film.

At five o'clock in the morning, just before the sun rose, we crawled
out of our beds and drove to the starting point of our hike. During
the half-hour drive there, we were first rewarded with a gigantic
sunrise. We also spotted the so-called "Nene," a type of bird found
in volcanic landscapes--something very special, as it is very
difficult for any creature to survive in this landscape, and the
"Nene" are also endangered. There almost would have been even fewer
of them, as Michael was driving wildly and didn't listen to my
warnings that the "Nene" tend to run towards cars, which I had read
in the travel guide. After a wild evasive maneuver, he finally
believed me.

The starting point of the hike is, by the way, exactly where the lava
buried the road a few years ago. You simply park on the shoulder and
start walking. The beginning was already totally fascinating because
early in the morning the light is particularly charming, resulting in
beautiful plays of light. Sometimes the hard, black lava shimmered
golden, other times deep black or in hundreds of shades of gray. The
longer it has been since the lava flowed, the grayer it looks.
Relatively freshly hardened lava is pitch black and shiny. We kept
discovering the most bizarre shapes. You have to imagine it like
this: black lava as far as the eye can see, the ocean on the right
sparkling in competition with the sun, mountains or volcanoes on the
left, no one in sight, just the two of us in endless vastness.

<pic images/bi50.ps Hardened lava: On top, an almost metallic-looking layer, underneath crumbly stuff.>

At the trail head, there are always warning signs that you
should not get too close to the ocean, but instead keep a distance of
about 400 to 500 meters. This is because the hardened lava near the
ocean forms new land, which is very unstable. There can be
underground explosions that tear huge areas into the ocean. To make
people believe this, the dead and injured from previous accidents are
listed in all the brochures. They ignored the warning signs and were
swept into the sea. After a few kilometers, you suddenly come across
a stretch of abandoned road, which seems completely surreal.

<pic images/bi53.ps The lava has buried the road.>

In the distance, you can see a huge cloud of steam. That's exactly
the spot where the lava flows into the ocean. Since the lava is about
2100 degrees Fahrenheit hot (around 1000 degrees Celsius) and meets
seawater, you can imagine that it creates quite a lot of steam.
Halfway through our hike, we met a couple who were on their way back
and seemed completely electrified by the experience--and they were
also from near San Francisco. We cautiously asked how one would
notice that they were approaching the lava flow (Michael firmly
insisted that there must be huge warning signs). Not at all: Only
your feet get hot, we were told. And that's exactly how it was: The
cloud blows and wafts acrid fumes into your face. Your lungs hurt,
and your feet become incredibly hot despite the thickest hiking
soles. When you look down, you can see the lava glowing beneath your
feet through cracks in the rocks.

<pic images/bi5.ps Angelika is exhausted from hiking!>

<pic images/bi52a.ps Michael doesn't know what to do with all his strength and lifts up a solidified lump of lava.>

It's like standing on glowing coals. We felt like we were
melting. Additionally, there was a tremendous crunching sound when we
stepped on the super-fresh crusted surface. In that moment, you don't
think about the dangers at all. You feel as if you are part of this
spectacle and become very quiet because you suddenly understand,
feel, and experience how the Earth is formed. Indescribable! Then, as
we were almost on our way back, the newly crusted lava suddenly
opened up just a meter away from my feet and slowly and leisurely
flowed towards me in a bright orange, we could only marvel. Even
though the hike back was dragging on painfully, we were also in a kind of
trance and would walk the long path again at any time.

@Z: South Point

<pic images/bi33.ps Two teenagers jump down the 40 feet cliff.>

<em>Michael</em> 
If you want to know how the lava continued to flow after Figure (#1) at
the beginning of the newsletter, you just need to look at Figure (#10);
it was really impressive. On the website https://usarundbrief.com, you
can see it much more clearly than in the printout. Not only in color,
but also with the option to zoom in.

On the way there, we saw red lava streams pouring into the sea as if from thick
fire hoses. I wanted to quickly attach the telephoto lens and get closer when
we realized that it was just a temporary phenomenon--it had vanished by the
time I was ready! And after a red-hot chunk emerged from the seemingly hard
lava mass we were balancing over on the way back, we were very careful about
where to set foot on. Oh dear!

At "South Point," there are these cliffs where fishing boats used to be
lowered, and 40 to 50 feet below, the ocean waves are hitting the cliff. Two
guys, maybe around 20 years old, just jumped right off the cliff and plunged
into the water down there! I almost wanted to grab my swimsuit from the car and
follow them -- but suddenly I remembered that I'm about to turn 36: almost on
the brink of old age! So, we just photographed the guys and felt quite old.

@Z: Mauna Kea

<pic images/bi34a.ps En route to the summit of the volcano, Mike "Schumi" at the wheel.>

<em>Michael</em>
You can drive up a now-dormant volcano called Mauna Kea by car. The
only way up is a rather steep, unpaved road, and only one local car
rental company (Harper) allows you to take on the tour with their
rented "Toyota Four-Runners" (four-wheel-drive sport utility
vehicles). All other car rental companies known in America (Dollar,
Alamo, Avis) prohibit the use of this road in their rental
agreements. This turned out to be totally ridiculous because,
although the road was indeed unpaved, it was in excellent condition,
as wide as a highway, and compared to the 2,000 miles of Australian
dirt roads we covered a few years ago in a Land Cruiser, it was a piece
of cake. The car rental company also charged us an additional $22 per
day for full insurance coverage, which had a deductible of $5,000.
Sometimes Americans are really crazy.

What's interesting, of course, is that you go from sea
level to 12,000 feet in half an hour. The sunscreen bottle in the car
inflated like a balloon! Why? Here comes the answer from "Children
Ask, Nobel Laureates Answer": So, children... it comes from the, um,
molecules. The sunscreen molecules are in an airtight container, the
sunscreen bottle. And the air at 4000 meters is much thinner than at
sea level because we're almost in space, right! That's why the air
molecules from outside no longer press firmly on the sunscreen
bottle. But in the half-empty sunscreen bottle, there are also other
air molecules that got in there when we applied sunscreen down at the
bottom. Because the bottle is hermetically sealed, the stronger
sea-level air pressure inside still prevails at the summit. That's why the
air molecules in the bottle act like warm wheat beer, shouting "Wow,
it's tight in here!" and inflate the bottle. When you open the cap,
everything equalizes with a hissing noise.

<pic images/bi36.ps The 12,000 feet altitude change even makes the sunscreen bottle content expand>

We were told to also vent the car's gas tank once if it's less than half full.
Why? Our schoolchildren are supposed to find that out as homework. However, we
didn't see any exploding cars. At the top of the mountain, there are some
impressive observatories from NASA and such, because above the clouds in the
totally clear Hawaiian air, you can enjoy looking at the stars without much
obstruction. Additionally, there are only dim yellow streetlights across the
entire island to avoid disturbing the stargazers. Okay, I guess I'm gladly
paying taxes for that...

<pic images/tele.ps On the Volcano: NASA's Observatory>

<pic images/bi6.ps Above the clouds, all by car!>

Back down at sea level, Hawaiian vegetation naturally goes completely wild due
to the warm and at the same time humid climate: jungle-like trees, giant ferns
(the movie "Jurassic Park" was filmed on the island of Kauai), and tropical
fruits hanging from the trees. At a market, we bought small, freshly picked
bananas and my favorite food: passion fruit, sweet and at the same time so sour
that they make your eyes pop. Of course, there were also pineapples, mangoes,
guavas, and avocados.  Back home, we rented the movie "Molokai" from the video
store. It it set on the neighboring island, which we had visited two years ago.
We were quite amazed when we saw that one of the actors in the film was our
tour guide back then! (For those interested, the guy's name is Richard Marx).

By the way, Hawaiians don't pronounce Hawaii as "Hawaii," but rather
as "Hawa-i." First, they say "Hawa," then there's a tenth of a second
pause, and then comes the "ee." During the pause, there's actually silence,
and the "a" is interrupted. The same goes for the other islands; it's
"Moloka-i," "Kawa-i," and so on. But when the stewardess announced
our flight, she said "Hawaiian Airlines" without a pause! Angelika
barely stopped me from saying, "Excuse me, actually it's pronounced
'Hawa-ii-an Airlines'!

<pic images/bi37.ps Leaves found in the Hawaiian jungle are larger than anywhere else.>

@Z: Supermarket Chains

<pic images/bi47.ps In Kailua-Kona, there's also a Costco supermarket.>

<em>Michael</em>
Even when on vacation, you have to go shopping for groceries. A little water
here, a little champagne there. Why not in the same supermarket as back home?
In America, there is this phenomenon where, no matter where you are, you always
encounter the same chains: the "Starbucks" coffee shop, the fast-food joints
"McDonald's," "Wendy's," "Burger King," "Denny's," and "Taco Bell." Pizza
places like "Roundtable" and "Pizza Hut." Grocery stores like "Safeway". "Good
Guys" for electronic gadgets. And, of course, "Home Depot" (home improvement).
Incidentally, the latter is now open 24 hours a day in San Francisco, so if you
find yourself needing a suitable wrench at 2 a.m., you can quickly upgrade with
a 24-piece set. A concept that people in Germany should not shy away from
considering!

<pic images/costcosf.ps For comparison: The Costco in South San Francisco>

Funnily enough, these stores are always set up the same way inside:
Whether you visit a Safeway in New York, Chicago, or San Francisco,
the bread is always on the far right next to the wine, and the
vegetables are on the left when you enter, nicely sprayed with ice
water to make them look fresh. Take me blindfolded to the Safeway in
Des Moines, Iowa, where I've never been, and I'll get you a six-pack
of beer from the fridge in 30 seconds. Second row from the left, of
course.

This helps people here, who move their home much more frequently than, for
example, Germans, to quickly find their way around new areas. 5,000
miles away from home, but at least the supermarket reminds them of
home -- people need continuity. So we didn't hesitate for long (or
rather, I pestered Angelika until she agreed) to go to our (or more
precisely, my) super-supermarket "Costco" on Big Island. There, you
need a membership card (similar to "Metro" in Germany) and everything
is available in large packages and at super low prices. I almost lost
it when I saw local T-shirts with Hawaiian designs and surfer shorts
on display! And the mineral water wasn't "Crystal Geyser" like at
home but Hawaiian, otherwise everything was the same. I almost bought
the 48-piece tire pressure set, but at the last second, I remembered
that we were on vacation. Well, already completely Americanized...

What I've also noticed: the incredible low temperature that prevails in the
supermarkets in Hawaii. I believe every store needs its own nuclear
power plant, that's how cold they set the air conditioning there.
When it's still a pleasant 75 degrees Fahrenheit outside, they cool it down to
58 or so inside, which is apparently considered a symbol of luxury.
On that note, it's still wonderfully warm in Hawaii even in the evening hours,
and anyone coming from San Francisco knows how valuable that is. One
evening, when we were sitting outside at Roy's restaurant in T-shirts
and a pleasant breeze started, the head waiter immediately came over
and brought us two white chef's jackets to wear. By the way, Roy's is
a very good place.

@Z: Kona Coffee

<pic images/bi41.ps A coffee shrub bears fruits that later become coffee beans.>

<em>Michael</em>
Another specialty on Big Island is the coffee from Kona. It is
actually grown, harvested, and roasted there. This is unusual because
coffee requires a very special climate to thrive.

A pound of the best costs 25 dollars! We joined a tour of the
plantation. The fruits, which grow on bushes and look somewhat like
rose hips, are picked when they are red.

Subsequently, an ancient machine removes approximately three layers
of shell, leaving behind small kernels that look like a mixture of
hazelnut and oatmeal. Or unsalted peanuts without shells. These are
then dried, and finally, they go into the roastery, which roasts them
and extracts the typical coffee aroma from them.

<pic images/bi38.ps Before roasting, the coffee beans are dried.>

<pic images/bi39.ps A sack of dried beans -- ready for roasting!>

Due to the peeling and roasting, 5 pounds of coffee cherries yield
only 1 pound of coffee, which is why, according to the not-so-dumb
tour guide, coffee is so expensive. Additionally, the farm also had
macadamia nuts, and I immediately bought a bag. But then I remembered
that to return to California, you have to go through what is called
"Agriculture." Even though you are only moving from one U.S. state to
another, the men and women of the American agricultural authority
make a big fuss and check whether you are bringing in plants with
pests that could endanger California's agriculture. So, I ate the
whole bag of nuts until I felt sick! Since nuts are known to be brain
food, I also quickly disproved the theory of relativity in the
process.

In Hawaii, there is an old law that states: Every beach must be
publicly accessible. If a hotel chain sets up an ocean front property, it must
leave a small access path open for locals to get to the beach. Begrudgingly, the
uniformed staff will let you pass when you shuffle by them in
flip-flops to get to the beach. No wealthy snob is allowed to build
their fortress on the beach and fence it off--the beach is for
everyone. This is very unusual in capitalist America, where property
ownership is generally considered inviolable. I remember areas on the
East Coast where you had to drive around for hours to get to the
beach because house after house was built along the beach and
everything was fenced off.

<pic images/bi4.ps In Hawaii, the beaches are sometimes a bit hidden.>

Hawaii has beaches for tourists and also some for the locals. Tourist
beaches are signposted. That's where all the clueless people go. The
locals' beaches are secret. Suddenly, there are five cars parked on
the shoulder of a country road for no apparent reason (they're not
too strict about that in Hawaii), and you just have to join them,
then trek through some wilderness until palm trees suddenly appear
and a few guys are surfing on their boards in the waves, giving you a
funny look if you show up as a tourist.

At a beach, I managed to accidentally cut off a local in a wave
because we were surfing too close to each other. Angelika watched the
whole thing from the beach and later told me that the local angrily
hit the water with his fist while I quickly made my escape. I laughed
so hard when, a few minutes later, I almost ran into the same person
again by sheer coincidence. Luckily, I was able to dive into the wave
just in time, otherwise, there might have been a nasty international
incident!

@Z: Tellme

<pic images/bi43.ps Sun, clouds, and water in Hawaii>

<em>Michael</em>
The whole time I didn't have a laptop with me. The pager was on
strike, and the cell phone didn't work either, that's how remote the
area was. So I faced the problem of having to survive more than a
week without access to stock prices! To my rescue, there's an
internet startup company in America called "Tellme" (incidentally
also in Mountain View, where Netscape is), which offers internet
information via a telephone service. Like all new internet companies,
they are making heaps of losses to attract customers. "Tellme" offers
a toll-free number (1-800-555-TELL) with a voice recognition system
that understands whether you say "Stock Quotes" or "Restaurants" and
provides information on stock prices or restaurants accordingly. It's
a bit embarrassing to stand at a public phone and constantly shout
keywords ("Stock Quotes!" ... "America Online!" ... "Yahoo!" ...
"Microsoft!"), but what wouldn't you do to stay up-to-date, even in a
South Sea paradise.

Until the next newsletter, again from San Francisco!

Angelika und Michael
