
San Francisco, 01-17-2001

@Z: Gun Laws in California

<pic images/sw.ps A handgun of the brand Smith & Wesson (Model 745).>

<em>Michael</em> 
Let's get straight to today's main topic: Gun ownership in the USA,
bang, bang! 86 million Americans own a total of about 240 million
guns. In the US, the right to bear arms is enshrined in the
Constitution. As mentioned in the previous newsletter, the Constitution
of the USA has several Amendments. The
first of these, freedom of speech, we explained last time with
practical examples. The second Amendment, however, says:

"A well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free
State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not
be infringed."

Well, that's something! The constitution states that no federal or
state law may restrict the ownership and carrying of firearms -- for
the purpose, according to the founding fathers, to ensure that
there is always a capable militia (citizens' defense force) that can
defend itself against a government that goes rogue if necessary.

To understand the seemingly bizarre love that Americans have for
their guns, which appears strange to Europeans, one must delve deeper into it.
Defending one's own home or family against intruders, if
necessary, certainly plays a role, but it is not always the primary
focus. The American line of thought is that a true democracy allows
every citizen to arm themselves and effectively dismantle potential
oppressors, such as a military dictatorship.

Shortly after the abolition of slavery, blacks in the country
were still not allowed to own or carry firearms. It was only with the
Fourteenth Amendment, which was added to the Constitution in 1868,
that it was established that former slaves were now federal citizens
and therefore allowed to bear arms.

Most Americans deeply distrust the federal government in
Washington--much more so than in Germany, where people are aware that
politicians occasionally get involved in corruption scandals,
transfer undeclared money to Switzerland, or evade taxes, but no one
would assume that the next military coup is imminent. The extreme
case here in the USA involves some fanatics in Montana who barricade
themselves in fortresses, refuse to apply for credit cards or social
security numbers, and spend all day jumping around in camouflage
uniforms.

Therefore: "Every man be armed!" -- every law abiding citizen is allowed
to buy a gun here at the store around the corner. In the Wild West,
this was a necessity for survival; people would shoot first and
negotiate later. Now, this regulation is, of course, impractical in
modern big cities, as no one wants to be shot down by the next fool.
Although it wouldn't be legal to get shot, it doesn't help much if you're dead.

Therefore, there are different regulations from state to state that
restrict carrying firearms in public. For example, anyone who has been charged
with or convicted of a crime is not allowed to carry a weapon.
Mentally incompetent individuals, illegal immigrants, those
dishonorably discharged from the military, citizens who have
renounced their citizenship, or drug addicts are also prohibited from
doing so.

These restrictions naturally contradict the constitution
somewhat--and, as expected, cause constant disputes between gun
enthusiasts on one side and alarmed citizens on the other. The latter
have drawn their conclusions from massacres like the one at Columbine
High School in April 1999 (15 dead, 184 injured) and are henceforth
willing to make slight concessions to the constitution if it ensures
the safety of their children.

For the average citizen, it is usually only prohibited to carry a
"concealed weapon," a hidden firearm. Almost nowhere is one allowed to
carry a pistol under a jacket--unless one has a special permit. Even
then, government buildings, airports, sports stadiums, and similar
places are off-limits. However, in one's own home or rented apartment
and on one's own property, one can store and carry loaded weapons as much as
one likes, as long as children cannot access them.

<pic images/charlton.ps NRA President: The actor Charlton Heston>

<pic images/cap.ps From the NRA store: "My president is Charlton Heston">

The interests of gun enthusiasts are represented by an organization
called the NRA, the "National Rifle Association," which as of today has four
million members. Those who want to stock up on baseball caps with the
NRA logo or T-shirts and sweaters with clear inscriptions ("My
President is Charlton Heston" -- the actor Charlton Heston (e.g.,
"Planet of the Apes") is now the president of the NRA) are referred
to the NRA online store at http://store.nrahq.org/nra. At
http://www.nra.org, there are also numerous stories to read about how
armed citizens were able to prevent crimes at the last moment. In
various books, experts argue about what actually leads to fewer crimes:
readily available weapons, which might deter criminals from attacking
people or breaking into homes because they would then have to expect
armed resistance, or stricter gun control laws, so that criminals
also find it harder to obtain weapons, resulting in fewer gun
accidents -- and also preventing citizens from immediately wiping out
their families if something goes wrong.

<pic images/firearms.ps Sign at the airport: Weapons on the plane are only allowed in checked baggage and must be declared.>

You can easily buy various firearms at a gun shop. Rumor has it that even
Walmart (a supermarket) sells weapons. Since it had become customary
for robbers to first stop by the gun store and then the bank, laws
were passed that imposed a waiting period of a few days for handguns.
In contrast, you can get rifles immediately.

For a long time, people in America could buy firearms in stores as
easily as beer and take them home immediately. This changed in 1981
when an event shocked the public: a madman shot at President Reagan
with a pistol he had purchased shortly before. Although Reagan
escaped with minor injuries, the bullet severely wounded his press
secretary, Jim Brady, who was left paraplegic and confined to a
wheelchair. Together with his wife, Sarah Brady, he then campaigned
for a new law to prevent criminals from committing crimes with newly
purchased firearms. Seven years after the proposal, which became known
as the "Brady Bill," was introduced, and it was finally approved by
Congress in 1993 and signed by President Clinton, who strongly
supported the proposal despite strong opposition from the gun lobby.

Every buyer was henceforth required to fill out "ATF Form 4473,"
which, among other things, asks whether the person has a criminal
record or has ever been in a psychiatric institution. If you check
"Yes," you won't get the newly selected gun. If you check "No," the
data is forwarded to the local police station, which is supposed to
make a "reasonable effort" within the next five business days to find
out through the driver's license office whether the potential buyer
has a criminal record, is involved in ongoing legal proceedings, or
has been officially noted for drug abuse or general instability. If
the buyer is a law-abiding citizen of the USA, the approval comes
after five business days, and the purchased gun can be picked up at the store.

In 1995, the Supreme Court upheld another gun control law: No weapons
are allowed within 1,000 feet (approximately 300 meters) of a school.
Nowadays, each state has its own gun laws, and sometimes even
different counties follow different regulations.

In California, since October 1993, only people who can present a
"basic firearms safety certificate" are allowed to purchase handguns.
This certificate proves that the buyer has completed a basic course
in handgun handling. After a waiting period of 10 days, the buyer may
pick up the weapon from the store if the background check has cleared.
In one's own home or office, the firearm may
then be carried loaded and at will. Every gun dealer must have a sign
in the store that reads, "If you leave a loaded firearm where a child
obtains and improperly uses it, you may be fined or sent to prison."
Anyone who does not ensure that the weapon is securely locked in a
cabinet will be fined or imprisoned if children gain access to it and
cause harm.

In California, however, no handgun may be carried in a car or on the street
without a special permit, which can be very difficult to obtain. A loaded
handgun, in the glove compartment or under the seat, under the jacket or in the
wasteband is a serious offense, punishable by jail in certain circumstances.
Interestingly, the law does not prohibit carrying a gun openly, like in a
holster as the Cowboys did in the Wild West.  That seems to be allowed,
although I haven’t seen anyone doing it in the city yet—but I wouldn’t be
surprised!

@Z: Vacation in Las Vegas

<pic images/dvjunction.ps Intrepid newsletter reporter Angelika is taking photographs at a location at the end of the world.>

<em>Michael</em> 
Hey, and we went on vacation again: We actually wanted to go to New
York before Christmas. New York during the Christmas season--whether
or not Christmas means anything to you--is simply stunning. Overall,
New York is a fascinating city. But it didn't happen this year
because apparently all of America goes to New York during the
Christmas season, and hotel and flights were astronomically
pricey, even for us earning in dollars.

Angelika then came up with the idea of simply checking us into the
"New York New York" hotel in Las Vegas instead. This hotel looks like
the New York City skyline, has the Statue of Liberty in front, and
even features its own roller coaster. Las Vegas is just a good hour's
flight from San Francisco, so we flew there on a Wednesday evening in
December. We planned to stay in Las Vegas for just one night and then
drive to the more easterly located Death Valley to explore the desert
landscape there. But more on that later.

Let your newsletter reporter tell you: Las Vegas has changed,
my friends. Perhaps you know that Angelika and I first crossed paths
there almost 14 years ago. I remember affordable hotels and
restaurants -- every casino offered buffet for $1.99 or so, where
you could eat until you burst, which Huber and I did extensively back
in the day, as we were getting by on 30 dollars a day.

<pic images/slot.ps Slot machines in the casino>

<pic images/nyny.ps The hotel "New York New York" in Las Vegas with an attached roller coaster.>

Of course, these buffets do get tiresome; by the third meal at the
latest, you're fed up with the food. Until recently, there were no
decent restaurants in Las Vegas for spoiled Californians--but that
has changed by now. We dined out twice, once at "Il Fornaio" (Casino
"New York New York") and once at "Cafe Puck" (by the Austrian
Wolfgang Puck, "MGM Casino"), and both times the food was excellent.

<pic images/room2.ps (#1) Las Vegas hotel room>

<pic images/room1.ps Table and TV>

The hotel room was amazing. We paid about the price of an upscale
motel room and got a luxury suite that was as big as our apartment in
San Francisco. In the living room, there was also a huge bathtub with
a faucet that bubbled like a small river (see picture (#1)). By the
way, if you want to stay in the same room, the room number is 534, in
the so-called "New York Tower" at the "New York New York" hotel.

<pic images/waschbeck.ps Las Vegas bathroom>

<pic images/whirl2.ps Hot tub in our Las Vegas hotel room>

@Z: Las Vegas Hotelroom Shenanigans

<em>Michael</em> 
First, we faced the problem of getting our luggage from the car,
which we had parked in the parking garage, to the room. Although we
only had two travel bags with us, since the path from the garage to
the hotel room led through the casino, we didn't necessarily want to
appear as Mr. and Mrs. Packhorse, so we used the "valet parking." In
a previous newsletter, I already explained how this works: You simply
drive up, leave the car key in the ignition, and a liveried hotel
employee hands you a ticket. Then the employee gets in, drives the
car to the parking lot, and informs someone else to bring the luggage
from the trunk to the room. You go up to the room, where shortly
afterward the bellman rings, to whom you then give 2-3 dollars per
piece of luggage. When departing the next day, you call the
reception, ask if you could get "help with our baggage," upon which a
bellman comes up with a cart. You then go down to the valet parking
with him, where you again give the bellman 2-3 dollars per piece of
luggage and the valet guy, who brings the car around, gets out, and
leaves the engine running, about 3 dollars. Then you get in and drive
off. Whew!

@Z: Death Valley

<pic images/nevada.ps Las Vegas is located in Nevada, but Death Valley is in California.>

<em>Michael</em> 
Before leaving Las Vegas, we stopped at a supermarket to stock up on
groceries. In high spirits, I took a photo of Angelika selecting potato chips
at the supermarket (Picture (#2)). Immediately, a saleswoman approached me
and said I wasn't allowed to do that. I mumbled something and slinked
away. As I later found out, this is not allowed because the
supermarket wants to keep the shelf arrangement secret. Manufacturers
pay high prices for whether and where the goods are placed on the
shelves. We then crossed the state border into California and only
stopped again at "Death Valley Junction" to take pictures of old junk
(Photos (#3) and (#4)).

<pic images/super.ps (#2) Because of this picture, we almost got arrested.>

<pic images/dvj.ps (#3) Death Valley Junction>

<pic images/dvjunction1.ps (#4) Old junk at Death Valley Junction>

That's the rural and remote America that's always fascinated me -- and the
desert light plays as brilliantly as nowhere else in the world. It almost
looks unreal, try clicking on the pictures to enlarge them.
Almost fourteen years ago, when I traveled to the USA for the first
time, this vastness captivated me and has never let me go. What do
the people who live here do? More than two hours by car from the
nearest reasonably large city? Do they eat steak every day? Watch TV
every evening?

The food situation was really terrible. Outside of Las
Vegas, with its now genuinely diverse cuisine, there are only
steakhouses and those quintessentially American restaurants called
"diners." You sit in so-called "booths," which look like the open
train compartments in commuter trains from the past. Thick red,
comfortably upholstered benches, and each table has its own little
cubicle. In San Francisco, there's only one good diner, by the way,
it's called Max's, and I'm constantly waiting for Max Schuster to
visit us so I can take him there. I also force Angelika every two
months to go to this place, which is exotic by San Francisco
standards, so I can indulge on a greasy bacon burger, making me feel
sick for the rest of the day. But in the middle of nowhere, there's
nothing but gas stations and diners -- and that gets annoying in the
long run.

<pic images/badwater1.ps The intrepid newsletter reporter photographs the salt lake up close for the newsletter readership.>

<pic images/badwater4.ps "Badwater">

<pic images/salz.ps Salt crystals up close>

What's in Death Valley? A totally bizarre desert landscape with
mountains, canyons, incredible light, and dried-up salt flats! The
name comes from a touching story that I don't want to withhold from
you: It happened during the time of pioneers and gold diggers, who,
having just arrived by ship from Europe, set out overland to the West
Coast of America. Many dangers had to be overcome! They traveled for
months in their covered wagons. Near what is now the state of Nevada,
a group believed they had found a new shortcut to California--they
entered the valley but could not proceed further.

Two men set out to find a way out of the valley and left the group
behind. When the two did not return after two weeks, the remaining
group split into two halves. One half tried to escape the valley on
their own--and they succeeded. The other group waited for the
dispatched pioneers. One of the two men met a grim fate, but the other
managed to return to the group and lead them out of the valley along
a scouted path. As they left the valley, one of the women on the
covered wagon dramatically proclaimed, "Goodbye, Death Valley," and thus
the name of the valley was born: Death Valley. Ah.

On the road in the middle of nowhere, a cute little coyote approached us.
However, one must not feed these fellows because they should not forget how to
hunt for their food. Even Angelika, who usually dislikes dogs, had her heart softened.

<pic images/coyote.ps A totally dangerous coyote comes begging! The frantic newsletter reporters in fear and terror!>

As in all American national parks, there are also people who have
died in Death Valley, which is why there are a thousand warning signs
everywhere. This time it was a tourist from Austria who had attempted a hike through
the "Golden Canyon" in the summer, where it was about 110 degrees Fahrenheit in
the shade, and he suffered a heat stroke. That's why there's a sign
at the trailhead warning in typically clumsy translated German (see
Image 2014): "The desert heat and dryness can kill you. No water, so
bring enough water. It is coolest in the early morning." Sometimes I
wonder why there are people in America who think they speak German
but make totally ridiculous mistakes. German exchange students, sign
up in droves! But I digress. The "Golden Canyon" consists of the
chemical "borax," which, according to the rangers, can be used for
cleaning products and cockroach extermination. Accordingly, the
canyon looks like a gravel pit, only prettier.

<pic images/danger.ps Warning sign in silly German on the hiking trail.>

<pic images/goldencanyon.ps The "Golden Canyon" in Death Valley. Like a gravel pit, only more beautiful.>

Additionally, mines were dug out everywhere to extract natural resources
like silver. However, you are not allowed to enter the mines because,
according to the warning signs, you could easily explode. Therefore,
we stayed away from the mines and only covered 15 miles on foot through
the mountains. Fortunately, we're both going to the gym now, otherwise, we
would have collapsed. I haven't hiked that much since my time in the
military. There, we once had to walk 25 miles as punishment because we
had stopped at a beer garden during a 12 mile march. And no one noticed
that instead of the unnecessary heavy equipment, I only carried a
large pillow in my backpack, haha!

<pic images/mine.ps The entrance to an old silver mine>

<pic images/minewarn.ps Warning about the mine>

<pic images/stein.ps A strange rock at the mine entrance. Precious borax for pest control!>

The park offers a completely surreal landscape with
sand dunes. By the way, Ansel Adams photographed here in the 50s
with a black-and-white film; there's this photo where the dune looks like
a crescent moon. We went there twice because the first time it was
almost too dark, and the lady photographer demanded optimal lighting
conditions. Do you see the small black spot on top of the dune in
Figure (#5)? That's Angelika, who was up there with her photography
equipment. If you enlarge the picture on the internet by clicking on
it, you can see Angelika with two backpacks.

<pic images/dune1.ps (#5) Angelika on the Sand Dune.>

<pic images/dunemark.ps Who stomped "perlmeister.com" into the sand here?>

And there's another attraction, a ghost town called Rhyolite near Death Valley.
Ghost towns are simply abandoned towns that were deserted after the
reason for settlement (e.g., gold rush) disappeared. In the case of
Rhyolite, borax mining simply became unprofitable, and people
scattered in all directions. Today, you can see dilapidated cars and
50-year-old crumbling houses there -- that's considered really old in
America!

<pic images/ghost2.ps The intrepid newsletter reporters visit the ghost town "Rhyolite".>

<pic images/ghost.ps A rusty old car in the ghost town>

TODO

@Z: Trip to Germany

<em>Angelika</em> 
Michael insists that I contribute something to the newsletter before
I board the plane to Germany. Well, since my departure is already on
Thursday, which is tomorrow, I need to get a move on. I'll keep it
shorter this time, as there are still a thousand and one things to
do. Most of you are already well-informed about our travel plans. I
will head to Northern Germany on Thursday and spend the first two
weeks with my family there. In the third week, I will meet Michael in
Munich. Together, we will explore Southern Germany for a week.
Michael hasn't been to Germany in over four years. However, since he
now gets three weeks of annual leave at AOL, I was able to persuade
him to spend a week in Germany. We are eager to hear his impressions.
Incidentally, his first action was to organize a card game night with
his old friends from university. After all, Michael spent half of his
student days playing cards in the cafeteria.

@Z: Politik-News

<em>Angelika</em> 
Michael has already diligently reported on everything that has
happened since our last newsletter. I would just like to add that
this country now also has a president (so nicely called
"president-elect" here). But of course, you have followed that
despite the BSE crisis in Germany. I just can't help but note that
with Bush, something is coming our way. Not only does the man want to
push through his idiosyncratic "Star Wars version," a missile defense
system in space, but he also sees no issue with drilling for more gas
in Alaska, leaving environmental regulations to be voluntarily
followed by companies, and talking up a recession to push through his
controversial tax cuts. Only the NRA (see Michael's weapons report)
and Bill Gates probably love him, as he neither wants to restrict the
right to bear arms nor break up Bill Gates' Microsoft monopoly. Not
to mention the death penalty and his "tough on crime" rhetoric. His
cabinet nominations are cause for concern. Above all, John Ashcroft,
who is to become the U.S. Attorney General, is giving liberals and
women's organizations sleepless nights. He is considered deeply
religious, arch-conservative, and more right-wing than right. He is a
staunch opponent of abortion and would like to ban it altogether. On
the other hand, he is a strong supporter of the death penalty (please
don't ask me how that fits together). He also firmly believes that
the right to bear arms is every American's birthright. Currently,
Ashcroft's hearings are taking place in the Senate, which must
confirm the candidates put forward by Bush. Although Ashcroft is
viewed critically by many Senate members, no one believes he will be
rejected. A misery! Interestingly, the close election outcome has
almost been forgotten. There is hardly any mention that the Supreme
Court ultimately stopped the controversial hand recounts in Florida,
thus helping Bush to victory, or that Gore was more than half a
million votes ahead of him in the so-called "popular vote" (see last
newsletter). Amusingly, counting continues merrily in Florida. There
is a law in Florida that allows the public to inspect the ballots.
Now, among others, leading American newspapers have taken up this
right and continue counting. Even if these new counts were to make
Gore the winner, it would probably not change the official result at
all. Bush's reputation could, of course, suffer, but the man is so in
love with himself that it probably wouldn't bother him.

@Z: Stromversorgungs-Chaos

<pic images/pge.ps PG&E: We deliver energy -- or maybe not!>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Yes, and I have to report on another political issue. California is
currently grappling with a severe energy crisis. Every day we are
threatened with the possibility that, literally, the lights will go
out for a few hours because the electricity being produced is no
longer sufficient. Even today, we are at energy alert level 3, which
means that the power companies might turn off the supply in the late
afternoon, leaving us without electricity for a few hours. Go ahead
and mock this supposedly high-tech country! So far, however, there
hasn't been a so-called "blackout," but only because many companies
voluntarily close early to save electricity. I can tell you, it's
really annoying to have to walk around everywhere with a flashlight,
especially in the darkroom where I was really nervous last week. If
the power goes out there, and with it the red light, you can't see
your hand in front of your face because the walls are painted black
and there are no windows. It's well known that Americans aren't
exactly masters at saving electricity. It's therefore quite amusing
to watch when measures are discussed on how to save power. At AOL,
for example, employees were instructed to turn off their computers
when they go home.

The Californian crisis is, of course, self-inflicted. First, there's
the booming Silicon Valley, which, with its high-tech companies,
consumes enormous amounts of electricity. Then there's the
never-ending growth of the Californian population. However, the main
cause is that in 1996, under Governor Pete Wilson, the energy market
was deregulated: the prices that energy companies can charge
consumers cannot exceed a certain level. But when energy companies
have to purchase electricity themselves, the free market applies. A
very illogical situation. Since Californian energy companies obtain
most of their electricity from other states (there are far too few
power plants in California, and too few new ones have been built to
meet demand), and the energy companies there are ruthlessly
exploiting the situation, prices on the free market have skyrocketed
to astronomical levels. This means that Californian energy companies
are buying at much higher prices than they are selling, accumulating
debt upon debt, so that, for example, the company PG&E (Pacific Gas
and Electric Company) is facing bankruptcy. As an initial emergency
measure, it was decided that prices could be temporarily increased (I
turned pale when I opened our electricity bill), but that's probably
just a drop in the bucket. It's a good thing I bought one of those
huge flashlights, like the ones used in construction, a few months
ago. I had thought of power outages after an earthquake and had to
endure Michael's mocking comments, but he who laughs last, laughs
best.

Ha, information can change in minutes. There have just been the first
so-called "rolling blackouts": each time a different neighborhood is
without power, and it rotates. Our neighborhood hasn't been affected
yet. However, I just found out that we are in Block 12. So, we are
twelfth in line, and at 5 PM, the power was cut for the people in
Block 5. By the way, you can find out which block you belong to by
looking at your electricity bill (bottom left, in case anyone is
interested). So now I have to type even faster to finish the
newsletter before the potential power outage.

<pic images/karaoke3.ps The karaoke machine>

@Z: Karaoke

<em>Angelika</em> 
Now I would like to contribute something to your amusement. As
Michael already mentioned once, we will probably be going on vacation
to Japan in the near future. That's why this year for Christmas,
there were all sorts of gifts related to "Japan." Michael was
delighted with sake cups (sake = Japanese rice wine), various types
of sake, miso soup bowls, and the highlight, a Japanese course that
we will both start in April. But what would Japan be without karaoke?
You know, that's the thing where you sing along to well-known music.
Usually, a video plays on a screen, the music plays, and the lyrics
are displayed--you have to sing yourself. Now, Michael's Japanese
colleague loves "karaoke." She says that singing relaxes her
completely. During a Christmas party at another colleague of
Michael's, she tried to persuade us to go to karaoke with her. At
first, I turned pale with shock, as I assumed I would have to sing on
a stage in front of several hundred people (that's how I knew it from
television).

<pic images/karaoke2.ps Angelika is looking for her favorite cuddle
songs.>

Not at all. In Japan, karaoke is quite different: You rent a room
equipped with a TV, video, and of course, a microphone and gigantic
speakers, and you sing among yourselves. In Japan, for example, it's
popular to first go out to eat with friends and then later rent a
karaoke room. Since I was in an especially good mood at the
aforementioned Christmas party, I gladly agreed, which made Michael
turn a bit pale. Said and done: In Japantown in San Francisco, you
can not only eat good sushi (raw fish) but also rent karaoke rooms in
a karaoke studio (that's all they do). It was exactly as described: A
small room with a TV, sound system, and couch, as well as huge
binders from which you select the songs you want to sing (one binder
was filled with English songs, another with Japanese songs). Then you
enter the song number into the karaoke machine using a remote
control, and immediately the music starts playing and the video
appears with the lyrics on the screen. To know when to start singing,
the text is highlighted in color.

<pic images/karaoke1.ps The racing newsletter reporters sing like
nightingales.>

By the way, they don't play the well-known music videos that belong
to the original songs there, but probably due to copyright reasons,
completely different ones, which can be hilarious at times. You
should have seen us. Michael, of course, sang "Sharp Dressed Man" by
"ZZ Top" -- priceless. By the way, the whole thing is not that easy.
You often start at the wrong time, even though the lyrics are
highlighted, and because of the microphone and the amplification,
it's not easy to stay on pitch. But the more off-key, the funnier it
is! And Michael's colleague was right. The whole thing is actually
relaxing. The two hours we rented the room flew by. So, would any of
you like to try it out when you visit us next time?

So, that's it once again from the wild, wild West from your intrepid
newsletter reporters who fear neither death nor the devil. Four fists
for a hallelujah, yeehaw!

The translation of "Michael und Angelika" to English is "Michael and
Angelika.

