San Francisco, 09-05-2001

@Z: Marathon

<pic images/m1.ps Exhausted but Happy: The Marathon-Running Newsletter Reporter.>

<em>Michael</em> 
On July 8, 2001, the racing newsletter reporter ran the San Francisco
Marathon. It was so incredibly tough that probably none of you
softies can even imagine it. Let those who have ears to hear, listen:
Anyone who even thinks about giving up will do so by kilometer 35 at
the latest. The only way to complete the 42 kilometers is to firmly
believe that there are only two ways to finish a marathon: crossing
the finish line on your feet or being wheeled off lying on a stretcher.

For three long months leading up to the event, I had been preparing for the run
according to the training program in the book
<LINK>https://www.amazon.de/exec/obidos/ASIN/1570281823/perlmeistercom04"|The Non-Runner's Marathon Trainer</LINK>,
starting with 5 km runs, four times a week, and a long run each weekend. The
workload increases each week. By the way, you never run the full marathon
distance in training—the longest training run is 29 km, three weeks before the
actual marathon. But the most important part isn't the physical preparation—of
course, your muscles need to be strengthened and your body needs to learn how
to manage energy carefully. You have to learn to drink regularly and supply
your body with carbohydrates through brightly colored sugar water called
"Gatorade."

But most important is the mental preparation.  You learn to play movies in your
head for the moments when it gets hard to keep going. For example, you imagine
yourself running past cheering spectators, passing the the finish line. Or that
you're a steam engine that no one can stop.  It's also very important not to
set a time limit.  The goal is to finish the marathon—whether in 3, 4, 5, or
even 6 hours, it doesn’t matter at all.  The spectators at the actual event
were phenomenal, too. It was wild how many complete strangers were cheering me
on: "Way to go! You're all winners! Looking strong!"

<pic images/mara1.ps Top fit at kilometer 16, passing by the Bay Bridge>

By the way, every runner receives a small computer chip that is attached to
their shoe. It sends signals to the measurement stations that you pass by
during the race. This allows the marathon organizer not only to see exactly how
long it actually took you from the starting line (which you may only cross a
few minutes after the starting gun due to a bulk of runners) to the finish line,
but also to verify that you actually passed all the measurement stations along
the route.

<pic images/chip.ps The chip on the shoe sends an electronic signal to the measurement stations.>

The first 32 kilometers go by quite easily; although there are some
nasty hills in the way in San Francisco, but it's manageable. However,
from kilometer 32 onwards, it becomes extremely tough. Muscles
threaten to cramp, knees ache from the pounding of feet against
the asphalt, even arm muscles hurt and need to be shaken out
regularly. This is the point where many people give up--either
because they set a time limit that is now impossible to achieve or
because it seems pointless to struggle through the last stage just to
cover a few more kilometers.

One might think that if you can run 32 kilometers, you can also manage the last
10, but that's misleading.  Experienced runners know: A marathon is divided
into two stages: the first 32 kilometers and the last 10 kilometers, both of
which should not be underestimated. Of course, your honorable newsletter
reporter couldn't give up for at least two reasons: Firstly, he didn't see why
he should pay another 50 dollars of entry fees for another marathon, and
secondly, he had already told so many people about this run that the shame of
giving up would have been insurmountable. Had I given up, the many millions of
newsletter readers would surely have laughed themselves silly! And, because of
this, the intrepid newsletter reporter gritted his teeth and galloped through,
all the way across the finish line. Thank you, dear readers, you saved me!

To celebrate the occasion, I would like to share a quote that I saved
especially for this event (I planned ahead). From the internet
broadcast of the football match in which the club Bayern Munich
recently won the European Cup: "Effenberg steps up and confidently converts
low into the bottom right corner.  No chance for Cañizares, who jumped
in the other direction. Effe’s facial expression after the goal shows
absolute determination. His expression can almost be called manic.
You can tell: he wants this cup with all his might."

Oh yes, my time: 4:38:20, as you can very easily see on the
<LINK>http://www.chroniclemarathon.com|internet</LINK>.
Click on "2001 Finish Results", enter my bib number ("2003")
into the "Bib" field, and activate "Find a Runner"! Bam, here's my time!

The day after the race was, of course, terrible. I discovered that you can
cover even the shortest distances by car and that many buildings have
well-functioning elevators. But the experience was unique. I can whole
heartedly recommend it to every runner -- it was simply amazing to limp across the
finish line after such an effort, cheered on by thousands of
spectators. Then Angelika was right there, I got my medal, we left
Golden Gate Park through a side exit, and as if by a miracle, a taxi
came by. Out of sheer shock, I gave the driver a five-dollar tip,
hobbled up the stairs at home, and slipped into a tub of hot
water. Only once in a lifetime! To top that, next year I have to walk
barefoot through Antarctica.

<pic images/medal.ps The hard-earned marathon medal.>

After the marathon, I realized that all my sneakers were worn out.
Adding up all the training runs, I had covered more than 400 miles! Since I
already knew which brand and size I wanted, I thought I'd try
something new: ordering sneakers online. I clicked around a few times
on www.eastbay.com, paid with a credit card, and a few days later, a
shoebox was delivered to AOL at the office, where I had directed the order.
Super cheap! Super fast! Super reliable! A few days later, caught up
in the shopping frenzy, I placed two more orders.

<pic images/mizuno.ps New sneakers, ordered online. Photographed on the beach in Half Moon Bay.>

@Z: Cute little animals

<em>Michael</em> 
And here comes "Rundi," the newsletter supplement for our dear young
newsletter readers! You little rascals, in California, the Pacific
Ocean is practically on your doorstep, and you don't need to go to
the zoo to see the cutest animals. I already mentioned once that we
saw whales from the beach near the Point Reyes area, frolicking in
the water and spouting water fountains. Recently, we were down in
Morro Bay and walked along the beach. Suddenly, there was a splash in
the water, and we looked out to sea: there were actually
dolphins in the water, jumping around! In the photo with
the arrows, you can see the black tail fins of the two flippers
sticking out of the water. It's a bit hard to see in the printed
version, but on the internet, you can enlarge the picture nicely. If
you don't have internet access, pester your parents until they sign
you up with AOL!

<pic images/delfine.ps Two dolphins in the water at Morro Bay>

You don't need to go to the zoo to see seals, either. Right in the middle of
San Francisco, they swim to Fisherman's Wharf and sunbathe on some
wooden decks. Down at Big Sur, right by "Highway 1," there's a
beach where the somewhat larger elephant seals bask in the sun--and
you can get really close to them. No kidding, there were at least a
few hundred lying there last time we were there. They do smell a bit
fishy and grunt indecently, but people are thrilled.

<pic images/robben.ps Elephant seals on the beach at Big Sur>

@Z: Sweets

<em>Michael</em> 
And now, dear children, let's turn to an important topic. Your Uncle
Michael has researched this especially for you: American sweets. Of
course, not "Twix" or "Milky Way," as you already know those from
home.

<pic images/cube.ps (#5) Sweets to choose from in my cubicle>

In illustration (#5), you can see the snacks that your uncle buys in
bulk at the supermarket, occasionally nibbles on at work, and offers
to his colleagues at cost price. Whoever takes a bar just leaves some
money in the gum box so that I can buy another bulk pack next time.

<pic images/candy.ps (#6) American candy>

What is this in detail? From left to right in image (#6): "Nutter
Butter" are small cookies, most comparable to "Spekulatius." Taste
rating: 2. The blue "Oreo's" package contains black round sandwich
cookies with white filling--not really my thing, but when I recently
left a large pack from the supermarket unattended at home, Angelika
tore it open and greedily devoured it all before I had a chance to intervene.
Rating: 3. Second row from the left: the "Clif Bar." A "healthy" bar
(with important vitamins and nutrients and such) from Berkeley!
Rating: 1, it's really super tasty, I eat it often. By the way, it
costs $1.75 at the store, which is a real moon price for American
granola bars. At Costco, you can get it for $1 a piece if you buy
in bulk. Next:
"Reese's"--small chocolate cups with peanut butter filling. When I
first encountered this treat in America, it always seemed slightly
perverse to me. Slightly salty peanut butter in sweet chocolate? Call
me crazy, but I've gotten so used to it by now that I have to give it
a rating of 1. Next: "Hershey's" chocolate bar. Americans can't make
chocolate, I would trade 10 pallets of "Hershey's" for just one bar
of Milka. Sigh! Rating: 4. "Chips Ahoy": so-called cookies (in German
Plätzchen or Swabian Loibla) with chocolate chips. Not bad, rating:
3. Last row from the left: "Reese Sticks," like the "Reese's" above,
also peanut-based, but more with the consistency of peanut flips,
pressed into Twix-like chocolate bars. Quite good, rating: 2. Next:
"Luna," the fitness bar for women. No kidding, it says so on the
packaging. Initially, I had concerns about unwanted side effects and
such, but now I occasionally snack on one when no one's looking.
Rating: 2. And finally, at the bottom right in image (#6): "Fig
Newtons," fig paste in wafer dough, very tasty, rating: 2 plus.

That was the children's supplement "Rundi". Until next time! 'Night,
you rascals! Quick, quick, brush your teeth, off to bed, it's already
past bedtime! Back to the brutal world of adults.

@Z: Japanese Class

<em>Michael</em> 
Since we want to go to Japan either this year or next year, we are
currently learning the language in a course that takes place every
Saturday in Japantown in San Francisco. There, a Japanese woman
teaches us Japanese in both spoken and written form. It's absolutely
crazy, of course--Japanese has absolutely nothing in common with
European languages, and it is also written completely differently.
There are no individual letters, but thousands of symbols that either
represent things or determine pronunciation or grammar.

<pic images/jp1.ps (#8) My Japanese exercises in Hiragana.>

That's why one learns in two stages: Practical phrases are learned
acoustically and written down in a "romanized" script, meaning with
Western letters that roughly represent the pronunciation. For
example, "Hajimemashite. AOL no Schilli desu. Dozo yoroshiku onegai
itashi masu." translates to "Hello, how are you? My name is
Schilli and I work for AOL. Very pleased to meet you." It is spoken
as "Hascheeme-mush-te. AOL no Schilli dess. Douso yorosch-ko
onega-e-eetashymass."

The writing system is divided into three parts: Kanji, the Chinese
(!) characters that represent things or concepts. Then there are
Katakana characters, which the Japanese use to phonetically spell out
foreign words. Naturally, there is no Kanji character for "computer"
because it didn't exist a few thousand years ago when Kanji was
developed. So, the Japanese say something that sounds similar
("Co-n-pyu-ta") and piece together a few Katakana characters for it.
The third script is Hiragana, a type of phonetic script used to
attach grammatical endings to words or to phonetically spell out
words. For example, there is a Hiragana character for "Ka" or "Gu."
Some Japanese children's books are written entirely in Hiragana.
Train stations in Japan are, by the way, labeled in both Kanji and
(below) in Hiragana.

The three scripts are mixed together colorfully. For example, the
sentence "Please take me to the American embassy" is written using
all three: For "embassy," there are three Kanji characters that are
placed together to mean "embassy." "American" is, of course, not a
Japanese word, so it is phonetically spelled out in Katakana
("A-me-ri-ka"). The rest is grammar ("ma-de" for "to" and "onegai
shimasu" for "please") and consists of Kanji and Hiragana.

<pic images/embassy.ps The sentence "Please take me to the American embassy" in Japanese>

We are learning Hiragana so that we can just read like children. But
believe us, that's already hard enough (Figure (#8)).

@Z: Record of the month

<pic images/cake.ps (#3) The album "Comfort Eagle" by the band "Cake>

<em>Michael</em> 
And here's something new: The newsletter music reporter will be
introducing new super-strong CDs freshly squeezed from the American music scene.
Usually this is what is on 24 hour non-stop rotation at newsletter headquarters.
In this issue: The band "Cake," which
hails from the Californian capital Sacramento, has released a new
album called "Comfort Eagle." Figure (#3) shows the cover illustration.
On the internet, you can find the super funny
<LINK>https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X5KmB8Laemg|Video for the song 'Short Skirt/Long Jacket'</LINK>. Listen to the song all the way till the end, and a German tourist will make
an appearance! An amazing record! Buy it immediately!

@Z: Getting Into a Car Accident

<pic images/putti.ps (#7) The Sick Perlman>

<em>Michael</em> 
Recently on Saturday, I was driving our car "PERLMAN" along the wide
Castro Street when suddenly a "Lexus" car shot out from a side street,
running a stop sign and crashing right into the driver's side of my car.
There was a huge bang, I hit the brakes, and when I got out, I could barely
open the door because it was so dented (see illustration (#7)).

A nightmare to get into a car accident in America! Fortunately, the
other driver was insured (not a given in America, even though it's
legally required), and I was faced with the question of whether to
call the police or not. Since the other driver seemed quite
reasonable, I just copied his address from his driver's license and
took down his insurance details. Rumor has it that in America, you
only call the police if there are injuries or if the other person is
being difficult. The following Monday, I called our insurance
company, and since we only have liability insurance and no
comprehensive coverage, our agent advised me to deal with the other
person's insurance myself.

If both parties have comprehensive insurance, each simply reports the accident
to their own insurer, who then battle over the question of fault for years and
haggle over every penny. All the acquaintances we told about this were
horrified to learn that I didn't have a witness to confirm the incident! We
should prepare ourselves for years of litigation! I then called the other
person's insurance myself and described the incident. After about five rounds
of "Buchbinder Wanninger," the agent there finally accepted liability for the
accident -- it was pretty clear that the other driver had run a stop sign. As a
result, I was granted a rental car and given the address of a repair shop. A
week and 2400 dollars later, the sick PERLMAN was released as healed -- the
insurance covered the costs.  Now the car looks a bit funny since the paint is
peeling everywhere except on the new fender and door, but we are glad that
everything went so smoothly.

<pic images/heile.ps ... and a week later, all healed again!>

And here is one last announcement before Angelika gets to work:
Recently, a German expatriate living in San Francisco informed us
about how to get the Friday edition of the Süddeutsche Zeitung,
along with our beloved magazine, delivered to your doorstep. The
company GLP-News (www.glpnews.com) is shipping it reliably and even below
the usual San Francisco retail price of $4.50 per issue! We are happy
again and thank the friendly visiting newsletter readers who spoiled us with
brought-along SZ magazines during the magazine drought! Clear the way
for Angelika!

@Z: How does one get the Green Card?

<pic images/gc.ps The Green Card>

<em>Angelika</em> 
I want to start today with a report about our still ongoing Green
Card process, because in the last few weeks we have once again been
struggling through the bureaucratic mills in this regard. Some time
ago, in <RBLINK>20000526#10</RBLINK>
I already wrote about this, but due to the current events
and because we keep receiving inquiries, I am happy to
summarize it once again.

The coveted document is traditionally called a "Green Card" because
it used to be green. It represents the permanent residence and work
permit, meaning that American Green Card holders are allowed to take
any job anywhere in the USA (or not work at all), choose their
American place of residence freely, and live permanently on American
soil. Entry and exit to the USA are unrestricted. American citizenship
can be applied for after five years of holding the Green Card.
However, Green Card holders are not allowed to vote and will lose
their Green Card if they give up their American residence. The idea
that Green Card holders can live outside the USA and that it is
sufficient to vacation in America for a few weeks once a year is a
myth. Leaving the USA for more than a year risks losing the American
Green Card. Engaging in criminal activities is also not advisable if
one wishes to retain their Green Card status.

Additionally, there are already a hundred and one reasons why the
American immigration authorities might not grant someone a Green Card
in the first place. Those with poor chances include, among others:
terrorists, spies, and Nazis, but also prostitutes, drug dealers,
polygamists, and convicted criminals of any kind. People infected
with HIV, those suffering from tuberculosis, mentally ill individuals
(if they pose a threat to the safety of others due to their illness),
drug addicts, and foreigners who are likely to become a financial
burden on the American state, meaning those who would apply for
welfare, generally do not receive the coveted Green Card either.
However, there are subtle differences in these cases. For example, a
foreign couple would not receive a Green Card if one of them were
HIV-infected. On the other hand, if one is married to an American
citizen, the Green Card would not be denied in the case of an
HIV/AIDS infection.

But who on earth is even allowed to apply for the Green Card? The
following groups of people are free to navigate through the
bureaucratic jungle:

1. Immediate relatives of American citizens, no quota yearly 
quota restrictions:
a) Spouses b) unmarried children under 21 years of age c) parents
of American citizens at least 21 years old.

2. Immigration through other relatives ("family-sponsored
immigrants"), annual quota: a) unmarried children of American
citizens, 21 years or older b) spouses and unmarried children
of greencard holders c) children of American citizens d) siblings of
American citizens, 21 years or older

The possibility of immigration based on the listed family ties
initially sounds quite generous. However, this category is
subject to numerical annual limitations, meaning it can take years
(waiting times of 10 years are not uncommon) before the applicant
will actually hold a Green Card. The waiting times also
depend on the country of origin. If there is a quota system for a category, no more
than 7% of the total amount is allocated to a specific country.
Additionally, the total number of greencards issued worldwide annually is not
necessarily abundant. For example, 65,000 Green Cards are allocated
annually worldwide to siblings of American citizens. This corresponds
to the number of siblings in Mexico alone who are waiting for their
Green Card.

3. Immigration for employment reasons (Employment-Based Immigrants),
annual quota:

In this category "Immigration for Employment Reasons," a so-called
"Labor Certificate" is usually required, which is proof that there is
indeed no qualified American available for the advertised job.
Investors and highly skilled workers, including prominent professors
and researchers as well as executives, can consider themselves
fortunate because they do not need a Labor Certificate.

4. Green Card Lottery, annual quota: People from countries with a
comparatively low number of immigrants living in the USA. It is indeed a
lottery. To participate, in addition to a qualifying
country affiliation, you also need to have completed an education.
Michael and I, of course, participate every year. And I have to get
this off my chest: It seems to have become fashionable in Germany to
participate in the Green Card Lottery just for fun, even if one never
intends to work and live in America. Yes, dear people, please think
of those who have been waiting for years for their Green Card ...

5. Political asylum/refugee status, quota regulation for refugees:
Political asylum seekers and refugees who are persecuted because of
their religion, nationality, ethnic affiliation, etc.

There are also some special cases that allow for a green card
application. However, I'll spare you those for now so you don't fall
asleep while reading.

And now for the big quiz question: Which category do Michael and I
fall into? I've already mentioned that we always participate in the
Green Card lottery. So, our only option left is through the employer,
namely AOL. By the way, Michael is not considered a highly qualified
worker with extraordinary abilities, as this category is reserved for
internationally renowned scientists and writers, among others. Even
though Michael has already written Perl books, this is not enough for
the immigration authorities as proof of fame, much to Michael's
chagrin. So, Michael settles for the category "persons with a
university degree and special skills." In this whole process, I am
considered an "accompanying relative"--which should not be confused
with the "immigration through relatives" category. If Michael
receives the Green Card with the help of his employer, I will also
get it and receive the same privileges--in other words, I will be
allowed to work, for example (Michael is already looking forward to
this day). The only thing I have to prove is that I am married to
Michael. Children under 21 years old are also considered
"accompanying relatives." It is important to note that there is no
quota regulation for the listed relatives in this case. A truly
humane aspect!

The tricky part about the Green Card process with the help of an
employer is that, in principle, the employer applies for the Green
Card for the foreign employee, as they are providing the job. This
can lead to unforeseen problems. If you lose the job, the Green Card
application essentially dissolves. The same applies if you change
jobs. The ongoing Green Card application ends up in the trash, and
you have to start over. Since it currently takes between three and
five years in California to even receive the Green Card, you want to
avoid at all costs having to go back to the starting line. However,
the layoffs currently on the agenda are causing many (including us)
to worry about the applied-for Green Card.

However, there is a small glimmer of hope. I already explained in the
penultimate newsletter that Clinton, shortly before leaving office,
signed the new law "American Competitiveness in the Twenty-first
Century Act of 2000." This law states that you are allowed to change
your job if you have been in the third and final step of the Green
Card process for 180 days and have not yet received a decision.
However, a prerequisite for transferring the Green Card application
to the new employer is that the new job is similar to the old one.
And here we face the next problem, because the law is quite vaguely
formulated, and no one currently knows how the immigration
authorities will interpret "similar," for example. Everyone is
eagerly waiting for the immigration authorities to come out with
regulations that describe how the law should be implemented in
practice. However, this could take months, sometimes even years. The
law also only considers the case where the employee changes jobs (it
was introduced under rosy economic conditions). But what happens if
you get laid off? Does the Green Card application remain valid if you
quickly find a new, similar job? And if so, how quickly must this
happen? I tried last week to get an answer to this question by
surfing the internet for hours, but everyone is clueless, even the
lawyers. The current motto is: Don't get laid off and don't change
jobs!!!

To obtain a Green Card with the help of one's American employer
generally requires successfully completing three steps:

The first step: "Labor Certification" (The Work Certificate).  The American
employer submits the required documents to the state and federal labor
departments ("Department of Labor").  The goal is to prove that no American
worker is available for the advertised job.  The employer must not only place
advertisements in newspapers or similar public media, but also conduct
interviews with potential candidates.  The labor department determines how the
advertisements must be designed.

The second step: "The Immigrant Visa Petition." The American employer submits
the petition for the foreign worker to the immigration authorities.  It is
verified whether the worker truly possesses the required skills, for example
through diplomas and employment references.  In addition, the employer must
prove that they genuinely need someone with the described qualifications and
that they have the financial capacity to pay the locally prevailing wage for
the advertised position.

The third step: "The Green Card Application." This is the formal application to
obtain a Green Card, submitted to the immigration authorities. At this stage,
you transition from non-immigrant to immigrant status.  For the first time, you
appear as the applicant yourself, rather than just your employer.  The
application is submitted either to the U.S. immigration authority ("adjustment
of status") or to the American consulate in your home country ("consular
processing").

The latter might seem confusing at first, but it's entirely possible to have a
U.S. job offer while still outside the U.S.—in that case, the consulate in your
home country is responsible for issuing the Green Card.  Or, one might travel
from the U.S. back to their home country and complete the final step there.

Until a few years ago, this was often much faster than going through the usual
procedure within the U.S. However, after the German company SAP reportedly sent
hordes of employees to the consulate in Frankfurt to speed up the Green Card
process, a new form was introduced to close that loophole.

As a result, most Green Card applicants now file in the U.S.—as are we.  We’re
currently in this third step. It’s here that you must prove you have a clean
bill of health and a spotless record.

And the adventures we had during this step—you’ll hear about them in
<RBLINK>20020723#7</RBLINK>, but I’ll let you digest all this information
first.

@Z: The president is sending us money

<pic images/tax.ps President Bush is making a splash with a 600 Dollars tax refund for us.>

TODO

<em>Angelika</em> 
I would like to report on President Bush and his political ambitions.
This time, it's about his tax reform, which was passed at the end of
May. During the election campaign, Bush liked to boast about freeing
Americans from the scourge of high tax payments. I boldly claim that
many Americans voted for him for this reason alone. Because when
citizens--no matter where in the world--hear the magic word "tax
cut," most of them see dollar signs in their eyes, and everything
else becomes secondary. Poor public schools--never heard of them.
Millions of Americans without health insurance--not a big deal... The
main thing is we pay less tax. However, liberal minds criticize the
tax reform heavily because it brings the greatest financial benefits
to those who are already very well-off. The Democratic Party managed
to trim Bush's originally planned reform and also give lower earners
and families with children a piece of the pie by increasing the child
tax credit. Nevertheless, this remains more of a drop in the bucket.

<pic images/check.ps The check from the tax office for us "American Workers>

To avoid boring you to death, I'll quickly summarize the most
important changes. Previously, there were the following five
income-dependent tax rates ("federal tax"): 15%, 28%, 31%, 36%, and
39.6%. The tax reform immediately lowers the 15% rate to 10%. The top
tax rate will be reduced to 35% (by 4.6 percentage points) by the
year 2006, and the remaining rates (28%, 31%, 36%) will be gradually
reduced by three percentage points each over the same period.

And so that every taxpayer who submitted an income tax return for the
year 2000 can immediately feel the impact of the reform, a refund
will be sent out this year. Single individuals will receive a
one-time payment of $300, and married couples will receive $600.
That's why we recently received a friendly letter from the tax office
informing us when the $600 would arrive. Now, you shouldn't think
that the money will simply be transferred to your account. We've
often reported that the American banking system is somewhat behind
the times and that transfers, as known in Germany, practically don't
exist. So, the tax office sends a check by mail to each eligible
person. I find it amusing to imagine thousands of tax officials
stuffing checks into envelopes. However, when you think about the
costs that this entire operation incurs, it might bring tears to your
eyes. The New York Times has also reported extensively in recent days
that the once substantial American budget surplus has significantly
shrunk. A phenomenon that many critics of the tax reform had
predicted.

Typically American, the check is, of course, spent immediately. The
hardware store "Home Depot" (comparable to "OBI" in Germany) is
currently running TV commercials announcing that you don't even have
to take the tax refund check to the bank, but can redeem it directly
at all "Home Depot" locations when purchasing various goods. There
are also reports of the first fraudsters who, for example, send
official-looking letters that impose completely fabricated processing
fees on the tax refund.

@Z: Help with spending money

<em>Angelika</em> 
Non-profit organizations hope that many will take heart and donate
the money again for a good cause -- including the "Tenderloin
Childcare Center," where I still volunteer twice a week. They
published donation appeals in various newspapers. And now, here it
comes. Ta-da!!! The cover photo for these appeals, which shows a
child from the Childcare Center, was personally taken, developed, and
enlarged by me! Here's how it happened: The director of the
Tenderloin Childcare Center's umbrella organization was very
impressed with the photos I always take of the children and wanted to
decorate the organization's office spaces with them. So, I donated
five of my black-and-white photos and five color photos. These photos
were so well-received by the staff member responsible for public
relations that she asked me if I would agree to let her use my photos
for their public relations work, i.e., for brochures, advertisements,
etc. Naturally, I immediately agreed.

<pic images/fufa.ps (#9) The advertisement for the donation appeal for the tax refund check with Angelika's photo.>

A few weeks ago, a media company agreed to design the advertisement
for free (which is called "pro bono" here). At the end of July, I
opened the "Bay Guardian" and on page 41, a piece of my photographic
ambitions beamed back at me. The "Bay Guardian" is a free weekly
local newspaper that is very popular in San Francisco because it not
only reports on events, restaurants, etc., but also critically
examines the things happening in the city. The issue in which my
photo appeared was titled "Best of the Bay" and is particularly
sought after. Once a year, the "Bay Guardian" publishes a list of the
best and most popular restaurants, cafes, parks, destinations,
beaches, cinemas, and so on. Both the readers and the staff of the
Bay Guardian have their say. The following week, I admired my photo
along with the advertisement in the "San Francisco Business Times."
This newspaper also appears weekly and can be found at various
newspaper stands in San Francisco. In illustration (#9), you can see
the advertisement, and it is also available on the official webpage
of the umbrella organization (www.compass-s.f.org). At the very
bottom left in the fine print, you can also find my name. Yes, yes, I
admit that you almost need a magnifying glass to read it. However, in
the printed advertisement, it is easier to decipher.

@Z: Energy Crisis

<em>Angelika</em> 
Now, once again on the California energy crisis, which I have
reported on before. We were actually supposed to be sitting without
power constantly in the summer. Thankfully, this has not happened so
far. The power has not been cut off for a long time, which does not
mean that California has overcome the crisis. Because, as we know,
people tend to forget quickly, especially when the power is flowing
again, many fear that saving electricity is no longer a top priority.
That's why TV commercials are still running, showing the best ways to
manage electricity usage. And after the first commercials came across
as somewhat silly, as they only admonished with a raised finger to
turn off the lights, the second generation of the ad campaign does
not lack the necessary humor. Particularly amusing is the spot where
a teenager is seen sleeping in bed in broad daylight, urging not to
disturb this state, as teenagers are known to waste electricity.
After all, those who sleep do not consume electricity. A very
commendable concept, as I am also known to enjoy sleeping quite a
bit. The latest trend regarding the energy crisis met us recently in
San Diego, where we spent a few days because Michael attended the
Perl Conference. The hotel we stayed at demanded an additional energy
cost contribution of $2.50 per day! But President Bush recently
remarked so aptly that Californians shouldn't need to complain about
their higher electricity bills. They should just use their tax
refunds for that. Yes, one really doesn't know what to say to that.

So, enough reading material for you. In the hope that we won't have
to ask for asylum in Germany anytime soon, we send you all our
warmest regards.

Michael und Angelika
