
San Francisco, 9/17/2002

@Z: San Diego and Mexico

<pic images/board.ps Surfer Dude in San Diego>

<em>Angelika</em> When Michael set off for the Perl conference, sponsored by
AOL as every year, to San Diego located about 1,000 kilometers south of San
Francisco, I thought to myself: San Diego is nice, the ocean in July is nicely
warm for swimming, and just like that, I packed my bags and went along.

<pic images/skate.ps Skater Dude in San Diego> 

San Diego embodies what every tourist imagines California to be: The sun almost
always shines, and the surfboard is practically handed to you at birth. If
you're looking for the casual Californian lifestyle, head to San Diego and rent
a room in a beach hotel. That's exactly what we did.

While Michael was frolicking in conference halls, I was hopping around in the
waves, watching sun-tanned, fit boys and girls with one or two tattoos, always
in search of the best wave. Greetings from Baywatch. San Diego is known not
just as a surfer's paradise, but also for its proximity to the Mexican border.
Thus, a day trip to the Mexican border town of Tijuana is no problem at all.
And for us, freshly minted Green Card holders, even less so.

<pic images/surf.ps Surfen> 

Of course, even when visiting the U.S. on a visa, one can enter Mexico and then return to
the USA. However, this route is often chosen by people whose visas (usually
tourist visas) are about to expire, in the hope of securing another six-month
stay in the USA. Naturally, the American immigration authorities are aware of
this and therefore frequently scrutinize visa holders thoroughly. And after
September 11th, border controls at both the Mexican and Canadian borders were
tightened anyway.

But I'm getting ahead of myself: Getting from San Diego to Mexico is super
easy. You go to the tram stop, where a friendly employee explains to the
American wary of public transport how to insert four dollars for a round-trip
ticket into the machine (thank you!). Then you board the tram, known as the
"Trolley," to San Ysidro, the last town on the American side.

<pic images/trolley.ps Taking the trolley to Mexico> 
<pic images/beton.ps Crossing the border to the south>

Finally, after about an hour, when the tram stops, you get off and walk through
a concrete tunnel, which looks like an ordinary pedestrian overpass, to the
Mexican side. We passed through a turnstile and stood in front of a large sign:
"Mexico". Somewhere, two border officers were standing around, but no one asked
us for any papers.

<pic images/beton2.ps Across the border facilities into Mexico.> 
<pic images/dreh.ps Turnstile and barrier at the border.> 

From the border, you can easily walk into the city. Signs show the way. But, of
course, everyone wants to do business with the tourists and cross-border
commuters. That's why, right after the border, we encountered a fleet of yellow
taxis. The taxi drivers weren't sitting bored in their taxis; instead, they
approached the tourists with wild gestures, trying to lure a customer into
their taxi with a fixed price. From the brochure of the tourist office, we knew
that it is customary to negotiate the price before getting into the taxi. But,
as I said, we were walking anyway.

Interestingly, just a few days prior, there had been a not-so-friendly incident
involving taxi drivers, as I read in the local San Diego newspaper: Some angry
taxi drivers had blocked an American tour bus with their taxis and threw stones
at the windshield, believing that the tour buses coming from the American side
were ruining their business. However, the newspaper assured that such incidents
are quite rare.

<pic images/hunde.ps Wild dogs romping around> 
<pic images/mexhan.ps Street vendors selling colorful items.>

By the way, Tijuana is a typical border city. Those seeking the real Mexico
might return disappointed. Tijuana is modern, quite large (1.8 million
residents), and among the wealthier Mexican cities. Where the tourists gather,
there are countless kitschy souvenir shops, as well as restaurants and pubs
where young Americans let themselves get drunk. After all, in Mexico,
18-year-olds can already buy alcohol, while on the other side of the border,
one must wait until their 21st birthday.

<pic images/sauf.ps Americans get drunk in booze halls.>

At every corner, shop owners and street vendors (speaking English, by the way)
approached us. We had heard horror stories that they wouldn't leave you alone.
However, we found that a friendly "No, thank you!" or a shake of the head was
enough to get rid of the sellers. Payment is naturally in US dollars; tourists
should definitely not pull out Mexican pesos. Michael and I strolled through
the streets, enjoying the hustle and bustle and the bright colors. Laughing, we
watched tourists getting photographed on a platform set up behind a donkey. Why
the donkey was painted to look like a zebra, we couldn't figure out to this
day.

<pic images/esel.ps A donkey with zebra paint for tourists>

Pharmaceutical companies can only sell medications in Mexico at adjusted prices
due to the low purchasing power of the peso, which is why the same drug brand
often costs much less there than in the USA. As a result, in Tijuana, there are
noticeably clean-looking pharmacies offering inexpensive branded medications.

<pic images/apotheke.ps Cheap Meds> 

Our plans also included a visit to an upscale seafood restaurant that the
travel guide had praised. Michael initially grumbled that the idea of eating
fish in Mexico might not be so wise, but the fish was fresh and super
delicious, and the bill was up to US standards, which meant it was quite high
for Mexican standards. However, we dined among Mexicans and not in a tourist
hotspot. Of course, I did wonder whether the locals paid different prices than
we did.

<pic images/mexkar.ps Man Pushing Hand Truck>
<pic images/mextoy.ps Absurdly colorful toys are being unloaded>

After a few hours, we set off on our return journey to San Diego. We simply
followed the blue signs marked U.S.A. Of course, we hoped for a quick process
at the border, but when we arrived, we saw the huge queue of pedestrians. The
drivers didn't have it any better: The traffic jam in front of the border posts
was considerable.

<pic images/tousa.ps Tijuana: This way back to the U.S.>

Kindly, there was a small roofed area for pedestrians, resembling a mansard, to
protect them from heatstroke during the long wait. As we patiently stood in
line, we observed with amusement the innovative business ideas Mexicans came up
with to earn a few more dollars before we disappeared back onto the American
side. Street vendors walked through the lines of cars with souvenirs and
treats. Buses were ready, and cleverly assured us that we would cross the
border in no time if we just boarded the bus, while in the pedestrian queue, we
would need at least three hours. But what we liked best were the so-called
"Border Bikes." For a rental fee, willing tourists were given a bicycle that
looked like a folding bike, and they crossed the border with it.

<pic images/bbikes.ps From left to right: Pedestrian queue, Border Bikes, Buses.>

However, the cyclists couldn't just speed past the cars up to the border
booths.  They lined up between pedestrians and buses, and progress was slow.
Initially, the cyclists might have been a bit faster, but at the xray machine,
located inside a building, we encountered them again, and here, the cyclists
had a disadvantage because of the added complexity to navigate through security
with all their belongings and bicycles. It surprised us, by the way, that the
American border officials tolerated the bicycle phenomenon.

For us pedestrians, the whole process unfolded as follows: Firstly, we waited
outside in the queue. Slowly, we moved towards the building. Border officials
only allowed a certain number of people into the building at a time. We were
screened and asked if we had any weapons. Then, we proceeded through some
corridors to the next queue. Eventually, we reached one of the immigration
authority counters. We presented our Green Card (and only the card, by the
way). The officer asked us what we had bought in Mexico and couldn't believe it
when we said, "Nothing!" And just like that, after about an hour and a half of
waiting, we found ourselves back in San Ysidro, where we boarded the tram.

<pic images/krempel.ps What one can buy. Should one buy it, though?>

Sounds simple, doesn't it? It is, too, if you're an American or a tourist
crossing the border. But for Mexicans, especially those attempting to cross
illegally, it's a different story altogether. In order to stem the flow of
illegal Mexican immigrants, the authorities launched the so-called "Operation
Gatekeeper" in 1994: The border around San Diego was sealed off tightly, and
border agents were equipped with all sorts of technical gadgets, such as
infrared cameras, to quickly locate and promptly send back individuals
attempting to cross the border illegally from Mexico.

<pic images/grenze.ps Border congestion and Mexican vendors.> 
<pic images/flaggen.ps Greeting at the border for the three landmarks: McDonald's, California, USA.> 

Due to increased security at the San Diego border, many now try their luck
further inland, which typically involves long hikes through the desert. This
often leads to fatalities, as people succumb to exhaustion, dehydration, or
drown during river crossings. In the documentary film "Death on a Friendly
Border," which I recently watched in one of my classes and which focuses on the
described border section, it was stated that an average of one person loses
their life there every day.

Interestingly, there is a group of volunteers on the American side who, at
their own expense and in their spare time, replenish so-called water stations
with gallons of drinking water every weekend to prevent people illegally
crossing the border from dying of thirst in the desert. These water stations
are marked with blue flags. There is a "Gentlemen's Agreement" that border
officials do not disturb the water stations and do not apprehend anyone in
their vicinity. I wanted to mention this just to show that not all Americans
adopt a tough cowboy attitude. Many Mexicans, including Mexican President Fox,
hoped for border relaxations just over a year ago. There was talk of increasing
the number of work visas for Mexico and of a possible amnesty for Mexicans
living illegally in the USA, meaning the opportunity to gain legal status - all
put on hold after the terrorist attacks.

@Z: German Federal Election: Voting from Abroad

With anticipation, we here in the U.S. follow the German election campaign. We
smirk as we observe the Americanization of the campaign: televised debates, a
German newspaper suggesting which party the reader should vote for – something
that is usually only seen in the USA. It's remarkable how unquestioningly such
American traditions are adopted in Germany.

I dare to claim: Germany is not America. Firstly, American presidential
elections are about individuals. In Germany, I thought it was more about the
programs of the individual parties (please don't take away my illusions). And
the American televised debates between presidential candidates carry such
weight here because, for the majority of Americans, it's their sole source of
information. Thus, the televised debates often determine who ultimately becomes
president.

But I actually wanted to report something entirely different: how Germans
living abroad can cast their vote in the federal elections. During the last
federal election in 1998, in my youthful naivety, I believed that I could
simply go to the German embassy in San Francisco to pick up my postal voting
documents. I was wrong. First, I had to submit an application to the city where
I was last registered in Germany (which was Munich) to be included in the
electoral register. In 1998, I was promptly late. However, this time, I was as
vigilant as a fox. Thanks to the blessings of the Internet, I was able to
obtain the application for registration in the electoral register on the
website of the Federal Statistical Office, which I promptly sent to Munich.
Approximately four weeks before the election, my postal voting documents
actually arrived in San Francisco.

Lalala, I've already voted and fervently hope that my ballot made it safely
across the pond.  By the way, Germans living abroad can only participate in the
federal election (and, if I'm correctly informed, in the European Parliament
election). And here, for all those who want to know exactly (I love
bureaucratic language): "Eligible to vote are Germans within the meaning of the
Basic Law, who have reached the age of 18 and have lived continuously within
the current borders of Germany for at least three months after May 23, 1949.
Germans who live in a member state of the Council of Europe are eligible to
vote indefinitely. For a period of 25 years after leaving the Federal
territory, Germans living in any other foreign country are eligible to vote. It
is important to be registered in the electoral register in time (up to the 21st
day before the election)."

@Z: Back to work

<em>Angelika</em> Michael had been longing for this day for years: With our new
Green Card, I can finally be working here in the US. Although I haven't been
idle, no one was allowed to pay me for my efforts. The Tenderloin Childcare
Center, where I volunteered twice a week for five years, immediately offered me
a full-time position.  However, I gratefully declined because the pay in
childcare in America is more than modest, and a full-time job would have left
me no time for my photography and various other activities. But now I am a
substitute there. I can work as much or as little as I want and am assigned to
groups that are missing a full-time staff member for various reasons (vacation,
illness, etc.). The facility is currently undergoing changes, as it moved to a
new building in the same neighborhood in August. We are now not only taking in
more children but also providing spots for babies.

Perhaps you have wondered what an employee in America needs to engage in
(legal) work: There is no wage tax card like in Germany. Instead, every
employee fills out the so-called W-4 form, which determines the amount of tax
withholding from the gross salary. In a questionnaire style, the number of
"exemptions" for the employee is determined. "Exemptions" are available, for
example, for children, for being married, and you get an additional one if your
spouse does not work.  The more "exemptions" you accumulate, the lower your
personal tax rate will be. 

Then, every employee needs a "Social Security Number" because there are mandatory
contributions (e.g., social security) that the employer pays to the
relevant authority, called the "Social Security Administration." I mentioned a
long time ago that I received my American Social Security Number when I
obtained my American driver's license. The only problem was that my Social
Security card stated "Not valid for employment" at the time. After our Green Card was
approved, I had to visit to the "Social Security Administration" again, and lo and
behold, the computer was aware of our Green Card status. The clerk was
extremely confused that I had received a Social Security Number at all with my
old visa. Nowadays, that is no longer possible, he said. Only people with work visas
receive the coveted number. This leads to significant problems for many with
"dependent visas," as the Social Security Number is needed, as mentioned, to
obtain a driver's license, open a bank account, and so forth.

<pic images/socsec.ps Here is the "Social Security Number">

Two weeks later, the authorities sent me a new card with the same number,
but without any employment restrictions. Michael also went through the same
process, as his card had the clause "Valid for work only with
INS-Authorization" under visa status. With a Green Card, he is now free as
well, as he can work for any employer without the need for approval from the
immigration authorities.

Furthermore, I filled out the I-9 "Employment Eligibility Verification" form,
which every American employer must have on file for both American citizens and
"everyone else." Essentially, you are certifying that you are indeed eligible
to work and that you are who you claim to be. However, a signed certification
alone is not sufficient; the employer is required to review the appropriate
documents, such as a driver's license with a photo or a passport, as well as a
green card and social security card.

And because I work with children, the state of California continues to require
that my fingerprints be taken to check that I don't have any prior convictions related
to child abuse.

@Z: Starting in September: Fingerprints required for entry into the USA

<em>Angelika</em>
If you are entering the USA soon as a tourist, student, or business traveler
and additionally maybe look like a potential terrorist, don't be surprised
if the immigration authorities take your fingerprints, photos, and require you
to regularly inform them of your exact whereabouts and activities in the USA.
Although the authorities do not disclose the exact criteria they use to select
certain individuals for this special treatment, I can put two and two together
and imagine that it will primarily affect younger men from certain Islamic
countries. Initial civil rights groups are protesting that this approach
discriminates against Muslims. I predict the following: from time to time, the
over-60-year-old German tourist or businessman or a family-of-five will
be pulled aside for fingerprinting so that the immigration authorities appear
"politically correct." By the way, the fingerprints are immediately fed into
the computer to check if there is anything on file against the person in question.

Clear the way for Michael!

@Z: The Jury System in the American Criminal Trial

<pic images/jjury.ps The twelve-member jury in the American criminal trial>

A letter from the "San Francisco Superior Court," the city's highest court,
arrived by mail the other day. In it, Angelika was sternly ordered to participate as
a juror in a trial. As you probably know from American TV series (like "Law and
Order"), in the United States, it is not the judge who decides whether the
defendant is guilty in a criminal trial, but rather a randomly selected group
of twelve laypeople.

The economics/law teachers among you might be shouting: Haha, but in Germany,
there are also lay judges! That's right, my dear ones, but have you ever read
in the newspaper that a case was overturned by a lay judge? Theoretically, the
German lay judges are on par with the presiding judge and in some cases even
capable of overruling the judge.

In Germany, however, according to
<LINK>http://people.freenet.de/Schoeffen/Ehrenamt-Schoeffe.html|"Ehrenamt Schöffe"</LINK>, there are only 61,000 lay
judges -— meaning just one for every 1,500 citizens. I suspect that mostly those
who just say, "Yes, Your Honor!" are chosen. Additionally, it's easy for
professional judges to overwhelm laypeople with complex legal jargon.

<pic images/j1a.ps The summons to report for jury duty at court>

In the USA, it is actually "the people" who decide instead of the judge.
According to the Constitution, this is a group of "peers," meaning equals. I
find this to be one of America's most impressive achievements. The people thus
have a final right of objection in the application of laws. Of course, this
raises a whole series of problems: for example, state and defense attorneys
regularly put on full-blown theatrical performances during trials to win over
Mr. and Mrs. Average from the jury. While judges in foreign legal systems often
face little control and can therefore fully indulge their desire for
recognition, a judge here in the USA does indeed lead the proceedings,
determines which witnesses and evidence are admitted, but generally has to bow
to the jury's "guilty/not guilty" verdict. The judge can then independently
determine the sentence.

In a trial, after the opening statements from the prosecution and the defense,
the jury is presented with the facts. Only what is explicitly stated by
witnesses or experts during the trial actually counts. Even if the case has
already been on television and, for example, a video of the incident exists,
this does not automatically qualify as evidence. If the judge decides, for
instance, in response to an objection from the defense, that the weapon with
the defendant's fingerprints is not admissible as evidence (e.g., because it
was obtained through improper police methods), then the jury must disregard its
existence.

If a witness on the stand answers the prosecutor's question, "Where was the
defendant at the time of the crime?" with "At my house. We have an amazing
collection of weapons," the defense attorney would shout, "Objection,
non-responsive!" because witnesses are only allowed to directly answer the
questions posed by the prosecutor or the defense attorney and not add anything
extra. If the judge then says "Sustained," the part about the weapons collection
is stricken, and the jury is instructed by the judge to act as if they never
heard it.

Or if the defense attorney asks the witness, "Isn't it true that the defendant
is an angel who wouldn't hurt a fly?" the prosecutor would shout, "Objection,
leading!" (the witness is being "led," meaning a specific answer is being
suggested). The judge would most likely say "Sustained!" and instruct the
witness not to answer the question and the jury to draw no conclusions from it.
If the judge says "Overruled," the question is allowed, and the witness must
answer.

This can complicate a trial that may last for months with hundreds of
objections, which are either overruled or sustained, especially for Joe Sixpack
on the jury bench, who has to remember what counts and what has been dismissed.

If the prosecution or the defense needs to prove a claim, they must bring
someone to testify about it in court. It is not sufficient to have a letter
from a state-certified expert or to rely on something that is generally known,
such as the fact that the highway 101 is extremely busy at six o'clock in the
evening. In the latter case, a police officer would come to court and testify
under oath: "Highway 101 was extremely busy on Monday, March 7th, at six in the
evening." Otherwise, it doesn't count.

<pic images/jjudge.ps Judge in a criminal trial>

Even if a juror knows something from the newspaper, is a crime expert, or knows
the defendant as a lousy crook, they are not allowed to use this knowledge in
their decision-making. Jurors are only allowed to consider what they learn
during the trial. For this reason, in high-profile cases (such as the O.J.
Simpson case from a few years ago), they are often sequestered to ensure that
they do not watch television or read newspapers. In a trial that lasts for
months, this is akin to a prison sentence.

The jury system also sometimes leads to excessive damage claims. Some time ago,
there was a case where a car manufacturer had placed the fuel tank in an unsafe
location for cost reasons. As a result, a car caught fire in an accident and
several people were burned to death. The anger of the relatives over the
company's business practices is understandable; they sued for damages.

The jury members saw it the same way and wanted to see the company suffer.
Following the motto "It doesn't cost anything," they agreed that the company
should somehow pay 65 billion (!) dollars. I believe that's the defense budget
of the Federal Republic of Germany. Or like the woman who burned herself with
McDonald's coffee and received several million because McDonald's hadn't
written "Caution, hot!" on the coffee cup. The jury members probably thought:
I've been sitting here in court all day, let's make it really exciting! By the
way, sometimes the amount is later reduced or the verdict is completely
overturned; the judge is allowed to do that if it's too ridiculous, at least in
California.

The judge explains to the jurors at the end of the trial in relatively plain
English and in great detail what their task is and what they are allowed to
consider. For example, everything the prosecutor or the defense attorney said
is irrelevant —- only witness and expert testimonies count. The jury's task can be
summarized briefly: they determine whether the prosecutor has succeeded in
proving the defendant's guilt "beyond reasonable doubt," meaning conclusively.
If there is the slightest doubt, the verdict must be "not guilty." 

After attending the entire trial (jurors are not allowed to ask questions, only
to observe) and being instructed by the judge about their duties, the jury
members retreat behind closed doors to reach a unanimous verdict (at least in
California; different rules may apply in other states). If they fail to do so
because one juror disagrees, it results in a "hung jury," and the trial must be
repeated.

The jury must limit its verdict to the existing legal framework. A juror cannot
say, "I don't like this law, so I will say 'not guilty,' even though the
scoundrel clearly violated this bizarre law." The judge will also instruct the
jury that the potentially imposed sentence should not influence the decision of
'guilty' or 'not guilty.'

But of course, all the instructions are of no use against the entrenched
prejudices of the jurors. This happened in the case of Rodney King, a Black man
who was brutally beaten by white police officers in Los Angeles. The jury was
all white and acquitted the officers, even though a video tape showed the scene
in detail. However, the prosecution's strategy, which did not even call Rodney
King to the witness stand, was also somewhat hollow. The next day, racial riots
broke out in Los Angeles.

<pic images/jask.ps The judge asks the jury foreperson if a verdict has been reached.>

On the other hand, the black football player O.J. Simpson was acquitted of the
murder of his wife, even though the facts overwhelmingly pointed to a
conviction. After the verdict, a black jury member saluted the defendant with
the "Black Power" gesture.

Judges are directly elected by the people here, by the way. You often see
election posters with slogans like "Vote for Judge Smith!" whereas in Germany,
it goes through connections to the state government, which either nominates
their socialist buddies or anti-abortion hardliners.

The court also invites many more jury members than are actually needed. This is
because both the prosecution and the defense are allowed to reject an unlimited
number of people for valid reasons and a limited number for purely tactical
reasons. This takes place before the trial, in the so-called "Voir Dire." For
example, if the death penalty is at stake in a trial, the first question to a
potential juror is: Are you against the death penalty? If the answer is "yes,"
the person is immediately dismissed. This is considered a "valid reason" in the
procedural rules -- however, it means that in such trials, only 65-70% of the
population is represented, because the rest are against the death penalty.
Lawyers also try to exclude people with strong personalities, as they can
sometimes create group dynamics and cause unwelcome surprises. These are
strategic reasons.

<pic images/jverdict.ps The spokesperson of the jury reads the verdict: Guilty>

The excellent book
<LINK>http://www.amazon.de/exec/obidos/ASIN/0965711501/perlmeistercom04|"Last Chance for Justice"</LINK>
by Laurence Geller and Peter Hamenway describes in
detail how the process works and the conflicts that can arise. Normally, the
trial takes
place near the location of the crime. However, if it seems that a fair trial is
not possible due to local bias, it can be moved elsewhere.

This happened in the case of the unpleasant dog-owner duo in San Francisco,
whose fighting dogs killed a resident. Almost any twelve-member group of San
Francisco residents would have sentenced the two fools to the maximum penalty
because the case caused such outrage. To ensure a fair trial according to the
American Constitution, the case was moved to Los Angeles. The dog owners were
still convicted.

<pic images/j3.ps (#1) Valid reasons to select if you can't do jury duty.>

Since there are always a bunch of ongoing cases, people are constantly being
selected to sit on some jury for the next trial. And the selection is truly
random -- everyone from punks to company executives can be chosen. Once
selected, it's hard to get out of it. It's common for someone in the company to
be absent because they have to fulfill "jury duty." At AOL, there's even a
checkbox for this when filling out a leave form. Employers are generally not
required to continue paying wages, but they cannot fire an employee for
fulfilling their civic duties. Depending on the state, there might be
compensation from the government, but usually not more than a few dollars a
day. And it's clear that a year-long trial can naturally spell the end for a
career that had just begun hopefully.

The summons, by the way, indicates that proper attire is desired. It is advised
against wearing tank tops, shorts, or flip-flops.  Anyone who already
envisioned Angelika serving on the next murder trial like O.J. Simpson's,
perhaps even speculating about a televised broadcast, will unfortunately be
disappointed: only American citizens are eligible to perform this duty. The
reason Angelika still received a summons is that there is no registration
requirement in the U.S., so the city of San Francisco has no idea who actually
lives there. As a result, they tap into the DMV database and send summonses to
all driver's license holders without a criminal record. Since this includes
many "Resident Aliens" (i.e., permanent residents without citizenship), the
summons comes with a form allowing recipients to indicate that they fall into
this category. This is exactly what Angelika did.

Quite a pity, really! It would have made for great newsletter material!

Since even the newsletter reporters are not allowed to take photographs in the
courtroom, we simply took the images from Angelika's favorite TV series "Law &
Order," which, as a lawyer once told us at a party, depicts quite realistically
how typical criminal trials proceed.

Just like in "Law \& Order," it rarely comes to a trial in reality, because most
of the time the prosecutor and defense attorney make a so-called "plea
bargain." The prosecutor proposes a sentence, typically slightly below the
usual penalty, which the defendant and their attorney accept because the laws
have become so incredibly strict that the jury usually has no choice but to
convict based on the legal situation.

For example, in California, the "Three Strikes" law applies: Just like in
baseball, where "three strikes" means the batter is out, for someone who has
already been convicted twice of moderately severe or violent crimes (it is
enough to simply break into a private home), the third time automatically
means: life imprisonment. It does not matter if the third offense was trivial.
There is actually a case in California where someone was sentenced to life
imprisonment because they stole a pizza the third time. That means at least 25
years!

Two million prisoners are sitting in American prisons. That's 1% of the
population! I believe that is almost a world record. By the way, the
correctional facilities are mostly located in remote areas. On our excursions,
we have passed by a few of them. You can tell on the highway because suddenly
there are signs that say you shouldn't pick up hitchhikers anywhere in the area.

TODO

@Z: Stories from the Beer Scene

<pic images/pauly2.ps The beer "St. Pauli Girl>

Besides Beck's, the American also considers the brand 'St. Pauli Girl' to be German beer. I could only convince a colleague of the opposite with great effort. Unfortunately, I also lost a bet because of this, as the brew is, according to the webpage...

<pic images/gaymiller.ps Gay beer advertisement>

Recently, I noticed a small advertisement in a well-known bar, where two affectionate gentlemen were actually promoting a beer! The major American beer manufacturers find themselves in a dilemma: the gay community in San Francisco not only loves to party and drink beer, but on average, they also have quite a bit of money to spend on it. A group that undoubtedly needs to be targeted with advertisements. On the other hand, they don't want to shake up traditional values. The good ol' boy from Texas must not, under any circumstances, believe that drinking Miller beer is somehow "gay"—otherwise, he might never again casually chug Miller with his football-loving drinking buddies. Consequently, the big beer companies only run targeted ads in areas where the target group is disproportionately represented. I'm waiting for the day when the billboard installers accidentally mix up the ads for San Francisco and Houston, Texas.

@Z: The newsletter top product

<pic images/biore.ps The pack of nasal pacifiers>

The "Top Product of the Newsletter" today is the nose patches from Biore. Nose patches? Huh? This is what happens when a couple lives abroad for years and doesn't experience any corrective influence in their daily language use: they invent new German words for things they didn't know before. What do you call sticky patches that you stick on your nose to pull out blackheads from your pores? See, you probably don't know a word for that either. The French company Biore offers these practical patches here in the USA, which you stick on your moistened nose, wait ten minutes, then peel off and admire the blackheads that have been pulled out.

<HTMLONLY>

The fact is: Every now and then, you get a pimple on your nose. It's annoying and painful. But if you stick a Biore nose strip on every two months and effectively remove the blackheads with the inherent Biore super adhesive, it won't get to that point. Good mood thanks to Biore nose strips. If only I were on the Nobel Prize committee...

<pic images/biorea.ps The nose pacifier peeled off my nose after 15 minutes.>

@Z: New on TV: The Shield

Actually, I would have thought that there wouldn't be any interesting crime series left in my life. I can only laugh at "Law and Order" or "NYPD Blue"; that's typical American nonsense that doesn't get an old dog like me out from behind the stove. When Angelika watches them, I usually listen to music with headphones.

<pic images/shield1.ps Vic Mackey from "The Shield" is once again plotting something illegal with his colleagues.>

But recently, a colleague at AOL drew my attention to "The Shield." I told my TiVo to record it for me, and what can I say, I was so electrified and shocked that I devoured the show from beginning to end without interruption. The show is insane, brutal, and unpredictable. It takes place in a police precinct in Los Angeles, whose chief, Aceveda, is a Latino who has worked his way up, wants to establish himself as a politician, and outwardly maintains a squeaky-clean image. However, behind the scenes, things get intense: The "Strike Force," consisting of the bald bruiser Vic Mackey, the unassuming gang-buster Curtis Lemansky, and the insanely dim-witted Southerner Shane Vendrell, solves stubborn cases, but mostly using illegal methods. Suspects are beaten during interrogations, confiscated cocaine is stolen, or nasty gang members who can't be legally caught are framed with a freshly fired weapon. Additionally, racial conflicts are fully played out and minorities are harassed, just like in any police precinct in the world. Addressing this in the USA is outrageous!

<pic images/shield2.ps The evil police officers happily watch interrogation videos while eating potato chips.>

The fascinating thing about the show, however, is that the viewer's sympathy lies with the thugs, as beneath their rough exterior beats a soft heart: they might take in the baby of a drug-addicted prostitute for a night or make evidence disappear that would incriminate someone who is actually innocent. Naturally, the police chief goes ballistic every time he learns about such actions and wants to get rid of the chaotic team, but somehow the street-smart Vic always manages to avert disciplinary complaints or mislead investigation committees, because he has eyes and ears everywhere and is on familiar terms with the underworld.

<pic images/shield3.ps The insanely stupid Southerner Shane, also from Vic's gang of thugs>

Additionally, there are other lovingly developed characters, such as the detective Wagenbach, who is generally called "Dutch" but is sometimes insulted as a "Nazi" because of his name. He is often despised as a wimp and a desk jockey. Then there's the Black officer Julien Lowe, who wants to be an "honest" cop but hides his homosexuality and is cruelly blackmailed by Vic, preventing him from testifying against the strike team.

@Z: Platte des Monats" translates to "Record of the Month" in English.

<pic images/bytheway.ps The new one from the Red Hot Chili Peppers: By The Way>

Last month, I announced that I would review the new album by the Red Hot Chili Peppers. This band hails from Los Angeles and, for me, epitomizes California. Not the death penalty California or the white suburban double-garage California, but the California of chaotic cities like Los Angeles or San Francisco, where there are still crazy people like the Red Hot Chili Peppers who don't care about anything and exude new ideas. According to my favorite show "Behind the Music," their bassist "Flea" once hammered on his bass at a concert until he had a hole in his thumb! And from the series "Behind the Perl," I confide in you today that under the (almost exclusive) influence of the album "Blood, Sugar, Sex, Magik," I wrote "Effective Programming with Perl5" back then, a long, long time ago. Now it's out!

But what did I have to find out? The record was number one on the German charts, and even the Bild newspaper, which I regularly read online to Angelika's dismay, reviewed it! However, I have one more thing to add, which you probably won't learn from German media: "On Mercury," the 13th song on the record, has Mexican influences. Mexican folk music is quite comparable to German Oompah (beer tent) music and is as much a part of California as döner is to Bavaria. In the "Mission" district of San Francisco, you often see Mexican street gang cars (by the way, they prefer souped-up Acura Integras like our unsouped-up PERL MAN) cruising by, with Oompah music blaring and cool characters hanging their elbows out the window. The circle closes.

Greetings from the West!

Angelika and Michael
