
San Francisco, 06-02-2002

@Z: Japan, Finally

<pic images/rtemp.ps Temple in Koya-san, Japan.>

<em>Michael</em> Finally, we did it: After intense preparations, we got on a
plane to Japan to wander around by ourselves for two weeks, have adventures,
and teach the Japanese to be afraid.

By the way, if you want to print out your newsletter and lovingly file it in a
hand-painted binder, you can now download it as a nicely formatted PDF file --
the link is at the top, you just need to have "Acrobat Reader" installed on
your computer. Today's issue is a hefty three megabytes due to the many images
(so you'll need a fast internet connection), but the next newsletters will only
be about half a MB in size.

Also, I have noticed that references to internet resources are appearing more
frequently in the text to offer you more in-depth information, in case you are
interested in a specific topic that is only vaguely touched upon here and
want to explore further. And since these "links," as they are called in
computer jargon, tend to be somewhat lengthy, the text only refers to a number
like [3], which is then resolved into the correct links (http://..., you know)
in the appendix "Links to the Internet" at the end of the newsletter. Happy
browsing!

@Z: Aircraft as Arcade 

<em>Michael</em>
We naturally chose Japan Airlines, JAL. There are horror
stories circulating about the limited seat spacing on their planes, as Japanese
people are generally a bit smaller than Westerners and therefore require less
legroom. However, each seat back is equipped with a small screen, where you can
-- even in economy class -- not only watch 10 different movies but also play
games like Tetris, chess, Connect Four, and more against a computer. The
Japanese are ahead in the entertainment industry! This was also evident during
takeoff and landing when the main screen displayed the image from a camera
showing the runway from the cockpit, vividly depicting in color where the plane
was currently going.

<pic images/tetris.ps Video games in the airplane seat>

Due to the tight seating rows, we asked at check-in if there were any seats
available at the emergency exit, but we were informed that we could at most get
so-called bulkhead seats, which are the row in front of the large screen.
Fearing that I wouldn't have a Tetris game, I generously declined. (In
hindsight, it turned out that the people in the first row, of course, have
small screens that come out of the armrest. And the seat spacing was okay.) We
then played like gaming addicts, the eleven hours flew by, and the stewardess
had a hard time convincing us to disembark at the destination.

@Z: Tokyo

<em>Michael</em>
Is there an airport that is located more idiotically than
Munich's Franz Josef Strauss Airport? Yes! Tokyo's Narita Airport is so far
from the city center that the bus ride there costs 30 euros per person. Since
we had booked a hidden gem hotel, our plan was to travel to a large central bus
stop and from there use our newly acquired Japanese language skills to direct a taxi to
the hotel. At "Tokyo Station" in the center of Tokyo, we did exactly that. Upon
arrival, we loaded our luggage into the first taxi we saw, and I said to the
driver: "Yama No Ue to ui hoteru made onegaishimasu." And, lo and behold, the
man nodded and said: "Ah, Yama No Ue no Hoteru. Hai!" I was speechless. Without
hesitation, he sped (by American standards: recklessly) through the streets of
Tokyo, past the countless neon signs of the shopping district Ginza, which we
would later explore extensively.

<pic images/werbung.ps Downtown Tokyo: Advertising>

Upon arrival at the hotel, the staff bustled around us, and in no time, we
were in our room. The hardest part was not giving a tip. Coming from America,
I'm used to fishing dollar bills out of my pocket, but in Japan, you absolutely
don't give anything—not to the taxi driver, not to the bellboy, not to the
waiter. If you do, it causes confusion or even offended looks, as we knew from
the travel guide. Nevertheless, the service is excellent. So, from then on, I
kept my hands buried deep in my pockets.

<pic images/street.ps Street scene in Tokyo>

@Z: Gastronomy

<pic images/dampf.ps Somewhere, something delicious is always sizzling.>

<em>Michael</em>
But back to the starting point of our journey: In Tokyo, you
can mainly do two things: shop and eat. We ate out three times a day for a week
without visiting the same place twice. However, dining out as a tourist is not
that easy because the menus are usually only displayed in Japanese. And even if
you, like us, can read Hiragana and Katakana quite fluently and know many
Japanese dishes by their Japanese names, it usually doesn't help because the
menus are full of Kanji characters. You need to know about 3,000 of them to be
able to read a newspaper reasonably well. We know about 80 Kanji—and that's far
from enough to understand even the menu of a sushi joint.

<pic images/sushi.ps Noodle Bar>
<pic images/restaurant.ps Restaurant>

Upon inquiring with the waiter (in Japanese, of course), it sometimes turns out
that there is an English menu available somewhere or a sushi menu with pictures
on it. This proved to be a lifesaver on the first evening, as we could point to
something and then say, "Two of those, please," which we can manage. If
necessary, you can also drag the waiter outside to the display window and point
to the plastic food replicas presented there. While illustration (#8) shows the
display of a restaurant with quite European food, in illustration (#9) you can
see the shop window of a store that sells the plastic items to the gastronomy
industry. A single one of these deceptively realistic sushi pieces costs more
than 5 euros, and a beer glass with plastic beer and foam costs over 30!

<pic images/plastik.ps (#8) Restaurant with plastic food display window>
<pic images/plastik2.ps (#9) Store for plastic food>

One evening, we were wandering around downtown, unable to find the dive bar
recommended in the travel guide, so we simply chose a nice-looking sushi bar.
It's worth mentioning: when you enter a subway or a pub in Tokyo, you are, with
very few exceptions, the only white person there. Coming from San Francisco,
we're used to a diverse mix of people hanging around, but in Japan, we realized
on the very first day that we were the only Westerners far and wide. Japan is
almost 100% Japanese. When we entered the place, there were only Japanese
people in suits hanging around, who like to eat after work (typically: only men
and in suits) and relax with a drink with colleagues after a hard day at work.
Everyone was shocked when we sneaked in. We felt like we were in a zoo. And
this in downtown Tokyo, can you imagine! I bet no Westerner had set foot in
this place in years. We got a table a bit away from the action and asked the
young waiter in Japanese if he had an English menu. He laughed and said just
one word: "Nothing!". Ah, yes.

We cautiously ordered a beer and concluded with sharp reasoning that this place
must have a sashimi combination (just raw fish without rice). The waiter nodded
enthusiastically. We ordered two, but after he looked at us in horror, we
settled for just one. A short time later, he brought it over, and the fish were
really out of the ordinary—one of them was a freshwater fish, which you
generally shouldn't eat as sashimi due to the risk of food poisoning, but of
course, we devoured it. We could hear the staff whispering, but everyone was
impressed when we declined two forks offered by a waitress and ate with the
chopsticks lying on the table. (Actually laughable, as I can, of course, eat
thumb-sized pieces of duck with bones or a bowl of dry rice with chopsticks.) I
also praised the sashimi with "Oishii desu!" ("This is very delicious!"), upon
which we heard a waitress happily repeat the short phrase to her colleagues
several times.

<pic images/note.ps (#4) The note that the waiter brought in the sushi joint>

Then the waiter came with a pen and a few pieces of paper, on the top one of
which (written by someone else, probably an English-speaking guest) it said
that if we wanted anything else, we should perhaps write it down (Figure (#4)).
We laughed, and I wrote in Japanese "Please, a beer" (in Japanese scribbles),
which caused almost tumultuous scenes among the guests. We then ordered and ate
some tempura and were about to pay when another plate with beef rolls around
something like potato salad came on the house. We explained in our very broken
Japanese that we were from Germany and not working in Japan, as had been
assumed. Everyone was thrilled, and I believe we have proactively ensured good
weather in German-Japanese relations, as preparation for the soon-to-arrive
football hooligans -- the Japanese will be in for a surprise, it's going to be
a disaster, they have no idea what's coming their way!

@Z: Tokyo Fish Market

<em>Michael</em> In a warehouse district near the Shimbashi train station, the
Tokyo fish market, the largest in Japan, takes place every day. Around 60,000
professional buyers search for fresh goods for their restaurants and shops
starting at four in the morning. Tourists are not actually allowed there, but
the travel guide mentioned that you won't be thrown out as long as you don't
stand around stupidly in the way and disrupt people while they're trading. As
usual, there were no signs, and we wandered around the district for a while
until we finally made our way through the vegetable market, escaping
recklessly zooming motorized cart drivers, into the fish halls.

<pic images/karren.ps Crazy cart driver>

It was bustling there, you can't imagine. Buyers were darting at a run through
the narrow alleys between piled-up styrofoam boxes filled with dead and live
fish, shellfish, and other sea creatures. Fish sellers were chopping up the
partially frozen fish with axes, sawing them with electric saws, and amidst an
indescribably fast and loud chaos, the trading was taking place.

<pic images/tuna.ps A tuna is being cut up.>

Like a guerrilla squad (small teams, strike quickly, disappear quickly), the
dynamic newsletter duo dashed through the aisles, took photos, and ducked for
cover between fish boxes every time a grumpy fish monger came running or a crazy
cart driver wanted to pass by.

<pic images/fmhaendl.ps Rambunctious Fishmongers>

We stalked through the cauldron for about an hour, thrilled by the fish glowing
in supernatural colors under the bright spotlight, the flashing pieces of ice,
the professionalism of the sawyers and the hackers, overwhelmed by the noise --
and always on guard and ready to jump aside to not obstruct the market
activity. After an hour and 100 photos, we made our way out. What madness!

We had breakfast after the experience at the counter of a well-visited sushi
restaurant located on the edge of the market. Raw fish and beer at nine in the
morning can only be handled by the iron stomachs of your dynamic newsletter
reporters! The sushi was wonderfully fresh, and even the usually tougher items
like squid and shellfish were nice and tender. By the way, the sushi chef at
this establishment had a knack for giving the piece of dead fish on the rice
ball a quick, powerful slap just before serving, causing it to arch slowly once
more when placed on the wooden counter, from where you pick it up with
chopsticks and devour it.

The portion of sea urchin (orange, looks like tripe) that I had never taken
from the conveyor belt of the floating sushi restaurant in San Francisco tasted
somewhat musty. And Angelika absolutely couldn't manage to eat the small white
worms, each with two staring eyes at the end (Chirimen Jako), so Michael, who
is known for being unfazed by anything that can be washed down with beer, had
to take over. The secretly curious onlookers (and of course, as always,
entirely Japanese) and the staff were impressed by these two tough Europeans.

@Z: Masks

<em>Michael</em>
In Japan's big cities, you often encounter people wearing white face masks. At
first, I thought: Aha, a case of tuberculosis. Let's keep a wide berth. But after
the tenth person, I revised my opinion and concluded that the hospital masks
are worn because of air pollution. Although Tokyo isn't excessively smoggy,
there is a bit of smog. The poster in illustration (#11) even promotes the idea
that children should wear masks.

<pic images/mask.ps Masks in traffic>
<pic images/mask2.ps (#11) Masks for children>

(Note: Thanks to reader Olaf from Berlin for the correction that face masks are worn
when one has a cold (to avoid infecting coworkers/customers) and for pollen
allergies. The poster with the masked children is part of a local campaign
against illegally adulterated diesel fuel with kerosene or heavy oil.)

@Z: Beverages

<pic images/automat.ps Vending machine at night>

<em>Michael</em> In Japanese cities, there are vending machines on almost every
street corner offering drinks of all kinds: from soft drinks like Coca Cola to
cans of cold coffee and even beer and whiskey, you can find everything you want
there, 24 hours a day. You read that right: there's even beer in the vending
machines, and we've also seen whiskey. The machines accept up to 500 yen coins
(about 4.30 euros) and even 1000 yen bills (about 9 euros) and reliably return
the change. A small keg of Asahi beer and a bottle of whiskey for about 20
euros were the most expensive products I saw; otherwise, a can costs about 140
yen (1.20 euros).

In the USA, such a vending machine would have an average lifespan of a few
hours before someone broke into it, but in Japan, this system seems to work
brilliantly; people even throw the drink cans into the appropriate trash
containers after use -— unheard of!

<pic images/drinks.ps (#1) Japanese drinks>

Different countries, different drinking customs: I have tried out the most
exciting new flavors of the local drink selection for you. In illustration (#1), we
move from the top left to the bottom right:

Chinese Tea by Coca Cola (1): Unfermented Chinese tea, not quite as harsh in
aftertaste as its original green counterparts. A bit friendlier for the Western
palate. Kirin Fire (2) and Kirin Super Fire (3): Chilled coffee with milk and
sugar, nicely rounded in flavor, with a long, fine finish. Georgia Emerald
Mountain Blend (4): Chilled coffee with milk, pleasantly spicy, but with a
slightly fishy aftertaste. Natua (5): A milk-like refreshing drink tasting like
thin kefir, without any other recognizable additives, similar to Turkish Ayran.
Acerola Drink (6): A drink tasting like artificial cherries with vitamins,
without carbonation. Takes some getting used to. Kirin Kiki-Chi-ya (7): Oolong
tea, somewhat unusual for Western palates, with a strong tannin aftertaste.
Unlike unfermented green tea and fermented black tea, Oolong tea is
semi-fermented and therefore tastes a bit less grassy than green tea. Calpis
Cool Soda (8): Lemonade tasting like Chabeso. Suntory Green Tea (9): Cold green
tea. Takes some getting used to, but very refreshing. Suntory Gokuri (10): A
delicious grapefruit drink, with an exceptionally pure, fresh taste, pleasant,
balanced sweetness, not as overly sweet as the American stuff. I strongly
suspect this will be a future Japanese export hit, and as always, you read it
here first in the newsletter. Green Tea by Kirin (11): Cold green tea,
drinkable. Kirin Milk Tea (12): A mild chilled black tea with milk. Unpleasant
UHT milk aftertaste.

@Z: Beer

<em>Michael</em> Japanese brand beers are, by the way -— as I already knew from
San Francisco, where Japanese restaurants and supermarkets carry Sapporo,
Kirin, and Asahi —- almost on par with German beers. And believe me, all the major
breweries in the world are trembling when I arrive to taste their beers.

The brand Yesibu from the house of Sapporo is truly world-class, a strong
lager, quite comparable to, and I am not afraid to say it, the Augustiner
Edelstoff, probably the best widely available beer in Germany. Indeed! However,
Yesibu is crazy expensive. The gigantic one liter can, which I am holding in
picture (#7), cost the hefty price of 560 Yen (about 5 Euros). Even I, who am
used to fantasy prices for good beer in the USA (1 six-pack microbrew = 2 liters
costs 8 dollars in the supermarket), was taken aback.

<pic images/asahi.ps (#7) Beer in liter cans>

@Z: Paper tissues

<em>Michael</em> Visiting Japanese public bathroom, you'll notice that paper
for drying your hands is not always available, so you should always have
tissues with you. Instead of brochures and flyers, distributors on the street
often hand out packs of tissues, which sometimes advertise (occasionally
questionable) services.

<pic images/tempo.ps Paper tissues are handed out as advertisment.>

Those distributors usually do not offer tissues to foreigners, by the way. However,
in the hustle and bustle of the subway stations, we managed to grab some several
times. As for using the tissues: place them on the shelf *before* washing your
hands—rummaging in your pocket with wet fingers after washing is uncool.

By the way, in Japan, it is considered extremely rude to blow your nose in
public. This is even stricter than in the USA, where you are not supposed to
blow your nose at the table and should excuse yourself to go to the restroom
instead.

@Z: Shuwattchi!

<em>Michael</em> One day, I noticed a poster hanging in the window of a
building that looked like a trade union center. On it, a Japanese person
appeared to be giving the Hitler salute! Wow, I thought, the Japanese Nazi
party, I absolutely have to report on this! And I quickly took a photo (Figure
(#5)). Back home, I asked my Japanese colleague at work what it was all about.

<pic images/rider.ps (#5) Yikes! What is the man doing?>

The pose is by no means associated with a right-wing political group, but
rather comes from the popular Japanese TV series
<LINK>http://www.kamenrider.net|"Kamen Rider"</LINK>, whose Superman-like hero,
whenever he transforms into Superman (in Japanese: enters "Rider" mode),
strikes this pose and shouts "Shuwattchi!" The gesture and expression are
widely understood in Japan, and the poster, if you understand the Kanji
characters, is simply promoting that employees should keep their social
security information up to date. Ha!

@Z: Fashion

<pic images/leute.ps Everyone is well-dressed.>

<em>Michael</em> In five and a half years of living in the USA, I have gotten used to
wearing a sort of sloppy California hacker look: short surfer shorts that come
just below the knee with roomy side pockets (mostly from Billabong, DKNY, or
Quicksilver), T-shirts that have been washed a thousand times (also surfer
brands, but also Nike, Adidas, and some from the Costco supermarket in Maui,
Hawaii), and sneakers that haven't been cleaned in years and are only
half-laced (Mizuno Wave Rider) are what I usually wear -- my idea of a
crossover between the Beach Boys and Public Enemy.

In San Francisco and the surrounding Bay Area, you rarely run into problems
wearing this style: I only know of two establishments from which I was once
kicked out for it: The cocktail lounge of the Bank of America building (no
shorts or sneakers after 5:00 PM) and the bar room of the Fairmont Hotel (no
T-shirts in the evening, must be a shirt or jacket). Since then, I've avoided
these snobby hangouts during critical times and have been happily getting by
with my choice of clothing.

<pic images/schuh.ps Japanese women love elegant shoes.>

In Japan, on the other hand, there is a stricter dress code: Most men wear
suits with ties, and women wear business attire and high heels. This is
because office jobs require this dress code, and people usually only go out
with business colleagues after work without changing clothes.

Funnily enough, my experience was that even in upscale restaurants, you won't
get kicked out despite having a shabby California look -— either you enjoy the
exotic bonus as a Westerner, or such an affront would be far too embarrassing
for the Japanese. I never tried it in shorts (it's not that warm in Japan in
May), but even in the most elegant restaurant, my worn-out sneakers were neatly
placed in front of the tatami mat without any eye-rolling.

@Z: Safety

<em>Michael</em> I don't think there are any criminals in Japan. (However, I have
heard that there is a kind of Japanese mafia called the "Yakuza," who roll
their "r"s and have full-body tattoos, which means they are not allowed in
public baths). You can carry hundreds of thousands of yen in cash without worry
(you have to, because hardly anyone accepts credit cards, not even some hotels)
and walk around with it at any time of day or night. It's also noticeable how
clean the cities are. No graffiti, no trash. You only see homeless people
hidden away in parks, and you really have to look closely to find them. No one
hits you up for money. No one loiters or hangs around provocatively. No one
honks wildly, yells, or makes offensive gestures. There's a lot more going on
in San Francisco, I tell you!

@Z: Technophilia

<em>Michael</em> The Japanese infatuation with technical gadgets is also
evident in everyday life: When you open the hotel wardrobe, the light turns on
inside just like in a refrigerator. Or the bathroom mirror is heated from the
inside, so you can still admire yourself even when you've taken such a hot
shower that everything steams up. Department stores like Takashimaya offer
lockers for purchases — and they are refrigerated, so you can store perishable
groceries you just bought there.

The taxi drivers can open and close the rear side door from the driver's
seat, so when the passenger gets out, they don't need to close it. The driver
presses the button, and the door quickly folds in. Our travel guide mentioned
that the authors, after several years of living in Tokyo, got so used to not
closing the taxi door that they did the same in New York -— which, of course,
resulted in the driver throwing a hissy fit.

<pic images/cell3.ps Instant messages via mobile phone>

The mobile phone industry in Japan is a step ahead of the rest of the
world. There are already mobile phones with built-in cameras that allow you to
send pictures to the person you're talking to! Additionally, I find it
remarkable that phone conversations in Japan are much more discreet. No one
loudly shouts into their phone on the train or lets it ring with annoying
melodies, unlike what Americans do (<RBLINK>20010701#2</RBLINK>).  No, on the
train or in a restaurant, the phone is set to vibrate mode, and for making
calls, one steps outside (in the train to the vestibule) and speaks quietly and
with one hand (!) covering the mouth, so that you can hardly hear anything.
That's what I call manners! The etiquette prize is going to Japan this
year!

<pic images/celln.ps The Japanese love their mobile phones ... but are considerate.>

But it's not just phone calls that are made on the go. Anyone who frequently
surfs the internet is probably familiar with what AOL calls "Instant Messages"
(AIM). Similar to the German SMS, young Japanese people, in particular, tap
away on the tiny keyboard to send short messages to their friends. Each phone,
in addition to the number keypad, has a dial that allows users to select terms
suggested by the phone's computer. In America, no one does that. Here, you can
even surf the internet and order books from Amazon using cell phones, but this
is criticized as being far too cumbersome.

@Z: Shinkansen

<pic images/hiraki.ps The sleek Shinkansen "Hikari">

<em>Michael</em>
With Japan's "Shinkansen" train (pronounced "Shinkan Senn" with a soft
's'), the equivalent of the German ICE, we sped from Tokyo to Hiroshima, then
to Kyoto, and finally, with local trains, to a sacred Buddhist mountain at
Koya-san. If you, as a foreigner, pay about 250 euros per week, you can get a
so-called JR Rail Pass, which allows you to use all trains of the Japanese
railway JR, except for the super-fast "Nozomi," and travel across the country.
The trains run precisely on time, are super clean, and only stop in major
cities —- a nearly futuristic world if you're coming from America.

<pic images/zisch.ps The Hikari whooshes past houses and rice fields.>
<pic images/bento.ps (#17) Portable lunch from the bento box.>

Because Japanese people, when they go on vacation, absolutely have to bring
back gifts (called O-miyage) for their colleagues, these are naturally offered
at train stations and even on the train. Additionally, as shown in illustration
(#17), there are pretty Eki-(station)-Bento boxes available for purchase, which
-- typical Japanese -- contain all sorts of delicacies (mostly fish-based) in
square compartments for immediate consumption.

<pic images/abahn.ps (#6) Lots of luggage at the train station>

In illustration (#6), you can see Navigator Angelika waiting at the train
station. Please note our luggage, which, for easier identification on the
airport conveyor belt ("Which black Samsonite was mine again?"), carries a logo
with three stripes that I personally designed. By the way, Japanese people
travel with very light luggage -- with our two huge bags, we were constantly
looked at in amazement, and I had to repeatedly help the slight hotel staff
with carrying the suitcases, otherwise they would have collapsed.

@Z: Japanese speaking English

<pic images/wohin.ps Where to?>

<em>Michael</em>
In Japanese, there is a funny linguistic peculiarity: One answers a
negative question with "Yes!" if you want to negate it. For example, to the
question "This train doesn't go to Shibuya?" a Japanese speaker would answer
with "Yes" if the train indeed does not go to Shibuya, while in German or
English, you'd answer "no" for emphasis.

This leads to all sorts of amusing misunderstandings between cultures. For
example, when we initially had trouble finding an ATM that accepted our
American debit card, we spoke with a bank employee. In broken English, she responded
several times in a row to our question, "So we can’t use this card at your
ATM?" with "Yes! No!" I was still laughing about it 10 minutes later on the
street.

<pic images/station.ps In the countryside: Game over, no more English. In the cities, at least the name of the station is still in Latin script.>

In general, there are hardly any people in Japan who speak English fluently. When
you go to a restaurant, at least in the big cities, you might sometimes find
someone who knows at least 10 words, so you can at least order a beer and maybe
(!) request a menu with pictures or even in English. But be careful: sometimes
the English spoken there is a fantasy version that has little to do with the real
thing. When we boarded a bus at Narita Airport to ride into Tokyo, the baggage
handler slapped our suitcase with his flat hand and shouted "No Breakup!" We
looked at each other questioningly because "breakup" in English means "to
separate" or to end a relationship. At first, I thought he wanted to make sure
that both of us were going all the way into Tokyo and not that one of us would
get off first and hence need some of the luggage. But no, he just wanted to make sure
there was nothing fragile in the bag!

@Z: Busy Bodies

<em>Michael</em> A bothersome issue in Japan is what I call "busywork." In
Bavarian, there is the expression "Gschaftler" — someone who pretends to be
extremely busy (gschaftig) with something but ultimately just produces hot air.
This seems to be a constant state in Japanese professional life. The
salespeople are frantically busy, literally running from one place to another,
and bewilder the startled tourist with wild torrents of words, which Japanese
customers, by the way, let bounce off them without comment. Even if you know
some bits of Japanese, like we do from our course, the staccato of the
salespeople and servers is so confusing that you can hardly understand anything
and, due to stress, can hardly say anything in return. Strict hierarchical
thinking also prevails: it can happen that an employee frantically busies
himself on the subway so that his boss, with whom he is going to lunch, gets a
seat.

<pic images/gschaftl.ps Construction worker busy bodies>

Another mass phenomenon is what I call the "people's run," a group dynamic that
occurs when a crowd of people suddenly starts running. I first noticed this
peculiarity when we were standing in line at airport immigration upon entering the
country. For Japanese citizens, there were about ten lines open for queuing, which
the steady stream of arriving people distributed themselves evenly across.
Suddenly, another counter opened at one end —- and as if pulled by a string, the
arriving people accelerated really fast to the speed of a "people's run" to
line up at the new counter.
Everything proceeds in an extremely controlled manner, and it is very rare for
someone to be jostled. (About as often as in West Germany, a little less than
in East Germany. In the USA or Great Britain, however, it *never* happens that
someone jostles you; that is considered a mortal sin). However, people in Japan do
not aggressively insist on their right of way; in case of doubt, they will let
you go ahead just before a collision. You also often see people, even those of
advanced age, in suits running through the city, probably because they're late for something.
In the USA, on the other hand, no one ever runs -- except for joggers and criminals on the run.
If someone in the USA is running in non-sports attire, you'd better take cover because
there might be a shootout soon.

@Z: Rambunctious Youth

<pic images/kinder.ps Kindergarten children>

<em>Michael</em> In Japanese society, everything revolves around group
affiliation -— usually a group of colleagues at work. The group defines the
rules, and children learn this early on, as they hardly do anything other than
kindergarten and school (from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m.), sometimes even on weekends.
This, by the way, leads to the fact that it is almost impossible for foreigners
to start friendships with Japanese natives. Even those "Gaijins" ("foreigners")
who live in Japan permanently and speak perfect Japanese reportedly find no
entry into these closed-off groups.

<pic images/hemd.ps (#14) School fashion: Letting your shirt hang out of your pants -- outrageous!>
<pic images/bua.ps Rambunctious youth are glued to their phones, while the elders polish the monuments.>

It is naturally difficult for young people to break out of there -- sometimes you
see amusing attempts within their means, like when the boys let their neatly
ironed white school uniform shirts hang out of their pants. Oh my! Or they
simply sit on the ground, even though that is considered completely
unacceptable in Japan! A new Generation X on the rise!

<pic images/moto.ps Young people on motorcycles>
<pic images/pachinko.ps Pastime Pachinko Games>

Among the approximately 16-year-olds, there is now quite a good alternative
scene, of course not yet comparable to that in the USA, but, oh boy, they do
throw trash on the street! What experienced English speakers often notice, by
the way, are the unintentionally funny English T-shirt slogans (see
illustration (#14)). But you can find that in Germany too, where I've also
laughed until I cried. However, I haven't yet found any pants there with
"GERMAN DOG" written across the backside in 10 cm high letters, like I saw in
the "Isetan" department store in Tokyo.

<pic images/gang.ps Young Mafia>
<pic images/tshirt.ps (#14) Youth running around with funny T-shirt slogans.>

@Z: Surveyed by Students

<pic images/buddha.ps Temple-Mania: Great Buddha>

<em>Michael</em> On our temple tours (Angelika was struck by what I called
"temple mania"), we encountered a large number of students on school trips who
apparently had an English class assignment to complete in addition to
sightseeing. Groups of four, consisting of around seventh graders, had to
approach one of the few foreign tourists (about five out of a hundred visitors)
and ask them a few questions in English, jot down the answers, and take a
group photo as proof.

It was hilarious to secretly watch the children as they overcame their
hesitation to make the first contact. An older teacher joined a group of two
girls and two boys, approached some American tourists who were already happily
willing to answer the questions, but then the two boys lost their nerve and
bolted in panic down the temple steps. We were asked a total of four times by
different groups at different temples where we were from ("Germany" was
unfamiliar to them, the Japanese "Doitsu" was more common), how old we were
(around 20), and what we liked about Japan (under Angelika's eye-rolling, I
listed the different beer brands). The children's English skills were not very
advanced, so the teacher often had to step in and translate our answers.

In Japan, it seems that English classes are conducted in Japanese, focusing on dry
grammar rules. Most children can't speak English at all. According to our
findings, most have studied English for six years, three hours a week. What
happens there is a mystery to me. English classes in Germany during my school
days were also quite ridiculous (so out of touch with reality that most people
couldn't even make a phone reservation at a hotel after nine years of school
English), but I knew the word for "soapbox race," knew what happened in 1066,
and could engage in discussions on various topics.

@Z: Geishas

<em>Michael</em> When a wealthy businessman in Japan really wants to let loose,
he rents two or three geishas for the evening for up to 3000 dollars. These are
professionally trained traditional entertainers who cover their faces with
thick white makeup, paint their lips bright red, introduce themselves to the
hosts during a formal dinner with a precisely defined ritual (Kaiseki dinner),
give them compliments, light cigarettes, perform fan dances, and strum on
hideous, out-of-tune three-stringed instruments. I wouldn't even pay 3 dollars
for that, but hey, to each their own. According to current estimates, there are
about 100 geishas left in Kyoto and 1000 in all of Japan. One evening, as we
were leaving a restaurant and Angelika went ahead because I still had to pay at
the register, the waitress excitedly informed Angelika that there were geishas!
Geishas! passing by outside the door. However, Angelika misunderstood the
waitress and replied that she was just waiting for her husband. We laughed so
much! Make way for Angelika!

@Z: Original and American knockoff

<em>Angelika</em> What beer is to Michael, a good cup of coffee is to me.
However, I prepared myself before the start of our journey to switch to green
tea, although I'm still not crazy about it. It seemed unlikely to me that the
Japanese would brew good coffee. But what did we find in Tokyo, Hiroshima, and
Kyoto? Small cafes in the European style, offering not only excellent coffee
but also delicious cakes, including cream cakes. The cafes were always packed.
The Japanese love their coffee. Unfortunately, there is also a "Starbucks" on
every corner, the American coffeehouse chain that, like McDonald's, establishes
itself in every country in the world (I read with horror in the New York Times
that there are now "Starbucks" locations in Austria and Germany too - a misery). I
believe you won't find as many "Starbucks" in any American city as you do in
Tokyo.

<pic images/starbucks.ps American chains are moving in>
<pic images/frappo.ps Green tea at Starbucks>

The stores were exactly like the American ones. However, I was highly amused
that Starbucks in Japan has a Green Tea Frappuccino on the menu. In general,
Tokyo does not hold back when it comes to culinary offerings: Italian, Indian,
French, Chinese, Thai, Californian, and of course, Japanese cuisine are all on
the menu.

<pic images/ampm.ps The American chain AM PM in Tokyo>

In Tokyo, we went to eat Italian for testing purposes. And once again, we
revised a prejudice: the food did not lack authenticity. Who would have
thought? Usually, immigrants bring their cuisine to the respective country. Not
so in Japan: here, only a vanishingly small proportion of foreigners actually
live there. And I swear that both the chefs and the waitstaff in the Italian
restaurant were entirely Japanese. We also noticed that the food wasn't altered
to suit Japanese taste buds, as is often the case in America, where suddenly
every dessert is overly sweet. Restaurants also always provide the correct
silverware, I read in the travel guide that the Japanese place great importance
on this. Michael ate fish at the Italian restaurant and actually received a
fish knife. That has never happened to us in our five and a half years in San
Francisco. And we really do eat a lot of fish.

@Z: Consumer Frenzy

<em>Angelika</em> Strolling through the food sections of the large department
stores in Tokyo is a delight for the senses. There, alongside delicacies from
around the world, you can find Japanese specialties such as crazy
expensive Kobe beef. It comes only from specially raised cows that are massaged
daily and even fed beer at times, costing up to 160 euros per kilo at the
butcher. Unfortunately, the fourth case of BSE has just occurred in Japan, and
even the Japanese are currently holding back on purchasing beef.

<pic images/rind.ps 100g of the finest Kobe beef cost 1800 yen.>

There are also sweets like Swiss pralines or cakes that look as if they came
straight from the Viennese court bakery. And what did we discover as we
leisurely strolled through the aisles of the "Takashimaya" department store
(pronounced: Takashima Ya!)? Sausages from Dahlmayer in Munich - the original!
There were lovely gift baskets with ham and all sorts of different sausages.
However, a generous gift basket, a threesome of a large whole smoked ham,
another piece of meat, and some sausages, cost 40,000 yen, which is 345 euros.

Overall, the department stores were absolutely stunning. There are extremely
beautiful things from all over the world to buy, and you can really get
everything your heart desires. In this regard, Tokyo is truly a cosmopolitan
city, while San Francisco is more provincial, if we're being honest.

In upscale Japanese department stores and in some important public buildings, we
encountered what I have termed elevator ladies (again, no men in sight), whose
job is to operate the elevator all day. Uniform, hat, and white gloves are
mandatory. The elevator ladies not only continuously use Japanese polite
expressions but also indicate with hand signals whether the elevator is going
up or down or when the doors are closing.

@Z: Japanese toilets

<em>Angelika</em> Regarding toilets, Japan has a lot to offer. First, there are
the traditional ones, which are usually found in public restrooms: a toilet set
into the floor that looks like an oversized slipper. You squat over it.
But don't worry: no one watches you during this balancing act. There
are stall doors you can close.

<pic images/klo.ps Traditional Japanese toilet>

On the other hand, there are the state-of-the-art variants: the obligatory
bidet, heated toilet seats, and automatic water sounds to drown out unpleasant
noises. In Japan, one should be cautious of this technical frippery and avoid
pressing random buttons on the toilet if you want to avoid taking an
unexpected shower. In our traditional inn (Ryokan), we had one of these
hyper-modern devices. The toilet had a control panel with various push and turn
buttons, which activated different bidet functions. You could adjust the water
temperature, water pressure, and spray technique. Despite all the warnings, we
naturally tried out every conceivable button. And lo and behold, there was the
consequence of such reckless behavior when I couldn't manage to stop the bidet
water jet. Fortunately, Michael already knew the button to turn it off which was
naturally only labeled in Japanese.

<pic images/kloctrl.ps In the cockpit of the brown bomber>

Due to the two different systems, public toilets usually have either "Western
Style" or "Japanese Style" written on the outside to avoid confusion.

@Z: Bicycles in Tokyo

<em>Angelika</em> In the mega-metropolis of Tokyo, we were surprised by the
many cyclists. But of course, parking spaces in such a dense environment are
extremely scarce, and traffic during rush hour is only slowly moving, so it
makes sense to use not only public transportation but also bicycles. We saw men
in suits and women in stylish shoes pedaling away. No one wore a helmet. Some
brave souls even rode on the street in the thickest traffic. It is often
allowed to ride bicyles on the sidewalk.  Sometimes, there is even a lane
designated as a bike path. However, cyclists speed along quite quickly even
when there is no specially designated bike path.  Like in a slalom, they
maneuver their bicycles through the crowds of pedestrians.

<pic images/radl.ps Cyclist in a suit>
<pic images/rad.ps The youth romantically rides together as a couple.>

Even drivers struggle with the cramped conditions. They drive very well,
swiftly, and can park in very tight spaces, tighter than anywhere else in the
world (Figure (#12)).

<pic images/garage.ps (#12) Tightly parked car in the garage>

@Z: Train station in Tokyo

<pic images/ubahn.ps S-Bahn station Shinjuku in Tokyo>

<em>Angelika</em> Before we set off for Tokyo, we read horror stories about the
crowds, especially in the subway and train stations and the trains themselves.
Of course, with 12 million inhabitants, we weren't surprised to generally move
in a throng of people.

But everything is running quite disciplined and orderly, so the many people
don't really bother you, and we made sure to avoid rush hour. In the stations,
arrows showed us which side to go up and down the stairs. The whole system is
very cleverly designed, as there is a barrier in the middle of the stairs, but
it's not exactly in the center, taking into account that largers crowds are
rushing to the stairs when a train arrives. In Japan, by the way, people go up
and down the stairs on the left side due to the prevailing left-hand traffic.
It is advisable to follow the arrows during peak times. I once didn't,
and despite my best efforts, I couldn't get back to the correct side.

<pic images/down.ps Marked areas for going up and down>

The Shinjuku Station in Tokyo, a combination of a train and subway station,
channels up to 2 million people daily, making the Munich Central Station seem
tiny in comparison. There are 60 exits, a labyrinth of underground passages,
department stores, and restaurants. It's completely crazy: like an anthill.
There's hustle and bustle everywhere.

@Z: Uniforms

<em>Angelika</em> Wearing uniforms is a really big deal in Japan. Armies of
schoolchildren are hopping around in school uniforms. The boys usually wear dark pants
with a white shirt and a suit jacket that resembles Michael's wedding suit (a
jacket with a stand-up collar that can be worn without a tie). However, we also
saw some students with ties.

<pic images/struempf.ps (#13) School fashion: Rolling down winter socks -- cool!>

Girls are wearing skirts and often a top that resembles a sailor shirt. On their feet,
both girls and boys wear modern sneakers. For girls, the latest fashionable
school uniform trend is to wear thick winter knee socks, which are casually
rolled down to slouch around the legs. There are always ways to loosen the
uniform requirements. Incidentally, Japanese schoolchildren also carry a
backpack, while this is otherwise a 100% identifying feature of non-Japanese
tourists. Japanese tourists are usually seen carrying neat little bags. The
receptionists (only females, I didn't see any men) at the information desks in upscale
department stores also wear uniforms and look like flight attendants. Often, a
hat is part of the outfit for women. It's all very nice. We were also
fascinated by the uniforms of the road workers because they looked so
different.

<pic images/poli.ps Extremely stylish: Police officers>

@Z: Taxis

<em>Angelika</em> Taking a taxi in Japan is a special experience. First of all,
there are no foreign taxi drivers in Japan. If you're used to American
conditions like we are, you'll be quite surprised, because in San Francisco,
you almost never encounter an American taxi driver. We also didn't see any
female taxi drivers in Japan. Taxi drivers usually wear suit and tie
and a hat that resembles that of a train conductor from my old picture book. But the
absolute highlight is the white gloves. Every taxi we
rode in was spotlessly clean, and the seats were adorned with white lace
covers. Taxi drivers don't speak any English at all, and I was glad that we had
learned from our Japanese teacher how to say where we wanted to go. The problem
is that it's not enough to show the taxi driver an address (preferably written
in Japanese characters). He usually needs a very precise route description. This is due
to the chaotic system in which addresses are written in Japan: it goes
hierarchically by areas (first the district, then the city, followed by the
neighborhood, individual streets, and buildings) and not by street names. House
numbers do not necessarily increase or decrease sequentially; it can very well
be that building number 20 is next to building number 1.

<pic images/taxi.ps Japanese taxi drivers, white seat covers, white gloves>

Of course, taxi drivers know where the train station, major hotels, or other
attractions are located. Unfortunately, tourists often don't know which
famous landmark the restaurant they want to visit is nearby. However, Japanese
taxi drivers are fundamentally honest and won't rip you off. If they can't find
the address, they will drive to the nearest Koban in the desired district and
ask for directions. A "Koban" is a small police station. These can be found in
every district, often no larger than a kiosk. Here, there is a detailed map of
the district where the police box is located.

In Tokyo (and in our experience, also in other Japanese cities), it is
additionally challenging that only the larger streets have names. Finding
something is a challenge even for a pathfinder with a compass, because there
are thousands of tiny alleys in Tokyo, none of which are marked with names on
street maps. We often searched for a restaurant described in the travel guide
and gave up in frustration despite having a map. Additionally, restaurant names
typically include Kanji characters, which are wonderfully decipherable in the
printed travel guide, but have little to do with the signs in the real world,
as they have been "enhanced" for design purposes.

@Z: To Bow

<em>Angelika</em> Trying to delve into the higher art of bowing as a Westerner
is not an easy task. The status of the person you are interacting with dictates
the depth of the bow and the order in which the two people bow to each other.
No Japanese person expects a tourist to know how to bow. However, bowing can be
contagious. In any case, I always automatically started to lower my head and
perform a kind of bobbing motion, which regularly caused Michael to burst into
laughter. Bows are more associated with formal situations, meaning that
friends, for example, do not bow to each other.

Immediately after our arrival, we had our first experiences with bowing. We
took the so-called limousine bus, which is actually a regular coach, from the
airport to the city of Tokyo. Before we set off, the attendant, who had
previously taken care of tearing the tickets, entered the bus, unleashed a
torrent of Japanese words on the passengers, and bowed deeply. It was amusing
because he was a very young guy with dyed red hair and a slightly punk
hairstyle. We also experienced bowing when traveling by train, where the
conductor would stand at the front of the carriage before checking tickets and
bow. How about that for the German Federal Railway? I particularly liked it
when a construction worker, who stopped us pedestrians for a moment to allow a
truck to enter the construction site, bowed deeply and murmured an apology. By
the way, he was wearing white gloves.

@Z: Shoes Off and Shoes On

<pic images/schuhe.ps Top priority: Take off your shoes!>

<em>Angelika</em> Just as I always get a chill down my spine when an American
clips their nails on the subway, a Japanese person shudders when a tourist
doesn't take off their shoes at the right moment. In Japanese homes, Japanese
restaurants, accommodations in Japanese style (traditional inns called Ryokan
or Minshuku), and temples, it's customary to take off your shoes. If any type
of shoes (even slippers) touch the tatami mats (tatami mats are straw mats that
cover the floor like a carpet), a witnessing Japanese person turns pale with shock. Now,
this might initially sound uncomplicated: take off your shoes -— no problem. But I
tell you, it's a science in itself, because before you reach the room with the
tatami mats, you switch to provided slippers at the entrance of the
establishment.

<pic images/schlappen.ps Provided slippers>

An elevated step signals the impending switch to slippers. And so begins the
balancing act, as street shoes must not touch the elevated step and socked feet
must not touch the floor designated for street shoes. I sometimes found myself
quite clumsy in this process, but noticed the same confusion among some
Japanese teenagers. Shelves are available for storing the shoes. With slippers
that were often much too small for us, we shuffled through the corridors,
constantly reminding each other to slip out of the slippers when stepping onto
a tatami mat. However, we often forgot to position the slippers so that we
could step back into them without having to turn them around (as the Japanese
do). A particularly amusing variant is the bathroom slippers. Yes, you guessed
it: upon entering a bathroom, you switch to the so-called "bathroom
slippers," hideous plastic items. We were just waiting for a faux pas to
happen where we would accidentally wander outside the bathroom in the bathroom
slippers. Miraculously, we never forgot to switch back to the other slippers.
We remembered the story our Japanese teacher in San Francisco told us. She once
trotted back into the temple wearing her bathroom slippers, prompting several
monks to rush over and yank the "impure" slippers off her feet.

In our Japanese course, we also learned that Japanese people do not squat on
the floor unless it is covered with a tatami mat. However, there seems to be a
clear generational gap here. We often encountered schoolchildren and teenagers
sitting on the floor. On the other hand, we observed middle-aged and older
Japanese people who did not even place their bags on the floor and put a
newspaper under their shoeless feet on the train to prevent their socks from
directly touching the floor.

@Z: Hiroshima

<em>Angelika</em> Almost everyone in the world knows the story of the
Japanese city "Hiroshima." During World War II, Americans dropped the first
atomic bomb there, killing hundreds of thousands of people in an instant.

<pic images/uhr.ps The clock that stopped at 8:15 when the bomb fell.>

Michael kept insisting to me that Hiroshima still has radiation. However, I was
determined to see the memorials for the victims of the first atomic bombing. At
first glance, Hiroshima resembles many other larger Japanese cities: modern,
colorful, with ugly concrete buildings reminiscent of the German architectural
style in the 1960s.

<pic images/hiro2.ps Hiroshima -- a completely normal city?>

Skyscrapers, stylish department stores. If it weren't for the Peace Park, which
commemorates the dropping of the atomic bomb with a museum and various
memorials, visitors would not guess that this city lay in ruins in 1945. In the
Peace Park, the so-called A-Dome is the first thing to catch the eye. This is
the ruin of the only building that remained standing at the center of the bomb
drop.

<pic images/hiro.ps Hiroshima -- Memorial site. In the background, the "Industrial Promotion Hall," which was miraculously preserved and stood almost at the center of the atomic bomb explosion.>

Throughout the park, there are various memorials, including one for the
children and the Korean forced laborers who were killed by the atomic bomb. The
memorial for the Korean forced laborers was only erected in 1970, as the
Japanese had diligently suppressed and ignored what they had done to the Korean
forced laborers until then. At the memorial for the children, entire school
classes lay down folded cranes in memory of a girl named Sadako. I have already
recounted the story of Sadako, who fell ill with leukemia in 1955 as a
result of the atomic bombing and began folding cranes to wish for health, and
how cranes are now considered a symbol of peace. The laying down of the cranes,
strung on threads, is often very solemn and accompanied by a small ceremony.

<pic images/hiro3.ps Hiroshima -- Memorial Site>

We observed schoolchildren singing, performing, and playing the flute. There
are many chains of paper cranes, and behind the children's memorial, there are
small transparent tent-like structures where the chains are hung. The peace
flame is also impressive; it will burn until there are no more nuclear weapons
on Earth. When you consider the consequences of Hiroshima, it is
incomprehensible to me why nuclear weapons still exist at all. The leaders in
Pakistan and India have probably never been to Hiroshima. Unfortunately!

@Z: Ryokan

<pic images/ryokan.ps A traditional inn, called Ryokan>

<em>Angelika</em> In Kyoto, we rented a room in a ryokan - a traditional
Japanese inn. The term "inn" might sound a bit rustic, but a ryokan is more of
an upscale version. It allows you to immerse yourself in ancient Japan.

<pic images/ryokan1.ps Ryokan Entrance>

Following the custom of removing shoes is very important in a ryokan. The room
itself consists of tatami mats and a low table, where meals are eaten while
sitting on the mat. In a ryokan, meals are typically served in the room by a lady dressed
in a kimono. Usually, both Japanese breakfast and dinner are offered. A
traditional Japanese breakfast consists of fish, miso soup, pickled vegetables,
some kind of egg dish, rice, and often tofu. Black tea is served as a drink. We
often received tiny fish with eyes (Chirimen Jako), which always looked at me
so nicely and resembled prehistoric worms.

Dinner can best be described as Japanese "high cuisine" (in Japanese:
Kaiseki). It follows a strict etiquette: the freshness of the ingredients and
the presentation are paramount. The food is lovingly and tastefully arranged on small
plates, and dishes and served one after the other. You can imagine it
as if there is one appetizer after another. The dishes include, among others:
sashimi or sushi, tempura, miso soup, cooked or grilled fish, something
pickled, rice. With Kaiseki, the saying holds true: you eat with your eyes.

<pic images/ryoasa.ps Japanese breakfast in a ryokan>
<pic images/frueh1.ps Delicious!>
<pic images/fishf.ps ... and it comes with a fish.>

Attentive readers among you are probably now wondering: But where do you
sleep in a Ryokan? Are there beds, or cozy mattresses on the floor? After
dinner, the kimono lady returns, clears the table, moves the cushions aside,
and lays out the futon and blankets on the tatami mats. By the way, Japanese
pillows tend to be on the harder side. The reason ist their barley stuffing. My
ears did hurt a bit from that. In the morning, the kimono lady appears before
breakfast and stores the futon and bedding back in a designated closet. Taking
a nap in a Ryokan? No way! Unless you lie down on the tatami mat without a
futon and blanket, which I only recommend for the very tired and hardy. Often,
there is a small corner in the room with chairs and a table in a Western style.

Michael managed to break the backrest of a chair on the very first day in our
ryokan. Although he managed to put the chair back together in a makeshift way,
the next day it (the chair, not Michael) was nowhere to be seen (we suspected
it was being repaired), which reduced the number of chairs in our room to one.
In traditional Japanese rooms, you often find an alcove ("tokonoma") with
arranged artworks or flowers. Japanese do not appreciate it when tourists
place their suitcases or other belongings in the alcove. I admit that one is
inclined to do so because there is hardly any furniture in Japanese rooms, and
we often desperately tried to store our things somehow. The rooms of an upscale
ryokan often offer a view of a Japanese garden. But be careful: if you want to
view the garden up close, you need to step into wooden clogs ("geta").

@Z: Japanese Bath

<em>Angelika</em> The use of a Japanese bath poses the risk for Western
tourists of stepping from one faux pas to another. It is important to follow
some key rules. Japanese people bathe to relax, not to clean themselves. The
most popular time for bathing is before dinner. In Japanese accommodations,
travelers will find either communal baths (usually separated by gender) or
private baths, both in the Japanese style. To accommodate multiple people in
the communal bath, the dimensions of the tub-like structure that guests enter
are somewhat larger. The bathwater is freshly drawn once a day and reused.
Therefore, the first faux pas would be to pull the plug when leaving the
"bathtub." Since many people enter the same bathwater, which contains no
additives (neither chlorine nor bath foam), one washes before bathing.

In a ryokan in Kyoto, we enjoyed the luxury of a private Japanese bath, which
consisted of a wonderfully deep wooden bathtub that smelled delightfully of
fresh wood. In our private bath, we practiced the etiquette to perfect it
before using the communal bath at our temple accommodation in Koya-san. In
Japan, it is customary for families to bathe together, even if a private
Japanese bath is available, which one could certainly use alone. During our
shared baths, Michael was always worried about the wooden walls of the bathtub.
He feared they might break if we leaned too hard against them. (The
chair-leaning issue was still on his mind.)

How does the cleansing process before bathing take place? Typically, the
communal bath has an anteroom. Here, you completely undress. Baskets are
available for your clothes. A bit away from the bathtub, there are water taps,
bowls, small stools, shampoo, soap, and shower gel. Sitting on the stool, you
wash yourself with soap. It is important to thoroughly rinse off the soap
residue to ensure that no remnants get into the bathwater. Often, there are
also handheld showers (much to Michael's delight), which make washing much
easier. In our temple accommodation, I was among the lucky ones, as there was
no one in the women's bath when I used it. Michael had the company of some
monks. By the way, Japanese people usually carry a small towel with them. No
one washes or dries themselves with it. It is solely used to discreetly cover
oneself in the appropriate areas during the washing process. This towel must
not be dipped into the bathwater. However, many Japanese place it on their
heads when sitting in the "bathtub." The bathwater is extremely hot -- that's
how the Japanese like it, as the muscles are supposed to relax after a
strenuous day.

<pic images/yakutta.ps A bathrobe called Yukata>

After bathing and drying off, everyone slips into a kind of bathrobe
("Yukata"). Yukatas are available in every Japanese accommodation. No one minds
if you walk around the house in it, have dinner in it, or use the bathrobe as
pajamas. The left side of the bathrobe is wrapped over the right. I always
focused on doing this correctly because right over left means that you are no
longer among the living. The only question that remained unanswered: What
should we wear under the Yukata? Underwear? T-shirt? Socks? No travel guide
answered this crucial question. To prevent getting cold, there is also a kind
of overcoat that you can wear over the "Yukata," called "Tanzen".

TODO

@Z: In the temple for AOL

<em>Angelika</em> The Shinto religion in Japan involves many rituals and
amulets: If you throw a 5-yen coin into a designated box in the temple and clap
your hands, it brings good luck in a requested area. You can also buy lucky or
disaster-repelling charms: Illustration (#16) shows one that you hang on the
car's rearview mirror, which amusingly reads "For Against Disaster" in English.
Of course, there are also amulets for passing exams or blessings for children.

<pic images/desaster.ps (#16) Amulet "For Protection Against Disaster>

Another gimmick involves writing worries on special pieces of paper that
completely dissolve and disappear when thrown into water, symbolizing the
disappearance of those worries. My biggest concern at the moment is, of course,
the low price of AOL stock, and I dutifully paid the 200 yen (1.70 euros) fee,
filled out a piece of paper, and let it dissolve in the water. Since then, at
least the stock hasn't fallen any further!

<pic images/aol1.ps Shinto: Write down your worries ...>
<pic images/aol2.ps ... and let dissolve in water.>

By the way, do you see the flag in illustration (#15) that shows a chapel? The
mirrored swastika does not indicate a far-right party, but is actually the
Buddhist symbol for "temple.

<pic images/fried.ps (#15) The symbol for "temple" is a mirrored swastika.>

@Z: Koya-San

<em>Angelika</em> To conclude our trip, we took the Shinkansen and several
local trains to Koya-san to visit the monastery. This is a very popular
spiritual destination for Japanese people and is hardly known among foreign
tourists. You travel about 200 kilometers south of Kyoto, spending roughly a
day on slow trains into the middle of nowhere, and then take a cable car for
the last five minutes to steeply ascend the sacred mountain.

For a fee, which is paid not at the monastery but at an office at the train
station, you get a room, dinner (even with sake or beer), and breakfast.
However, you will be woken up at 6 a.m. for the Buddhist ceremony of the monks,
and it is expected that you attend.

<pic images/kloster.ps In the Monastery at the Kotatsu>

In the room, we had a so-called Kotatsu, a traditional Japanese invention: a
low table with an electric heater attached underneath its tabletop and a thick
down blanket that extends from the tabletop to the floor. You can heat under
the table with the heater, and the blanket keeps the warmth in. You sit on a
cushion on the floor, stretch your feet underneath, and can read, work, or even
sleep. It's so cozy and practical that I've seriously considered getting
something like this for our apartment in San Francisco.

<pic images/dinner.ps Dinner at the monastery>

We promptly appeared at the ceremony at 6 o'clock in the morning, sat in the
lotus position almost the entire time, and listened to the monks' chanting --
an experience of sitting half-asleep in a cold temple and following the monks'
mantras, even though we didn't understand any of it. After 40 minutes, we had
truly earned our breakfast. By the way, the monks were vegetarians, so at noon
we eagerly devoured a tonkatsu, the surprisingly similar form of the Japanese
Wiener Schnitzel, at a nearby restaurant.

@Z: Cemetery in Koya-San

<em>Angelika</em> Every believer of the Buddhist "Shingon" sect (and also
Japanese Buddhists of other sects) wishes to be buried in the cemetery at
Koya-san, the headquarters of the Shingon sect. Even if it is just a lock of
hair, fingernails, or parts of the deceased's ashes that find their final
resting place in this cemetery.

<pic images/fried2.ps The cemetery gardener returns.>

They believe that this will put them in the front row when "Kobo Daishi," their
revered and deceased priest as well as the founder of the Shingon sect, who
according to their belief is merely in deep meditation, meets the future Buddha
and both return to the world. The cemetery is vast. There are gravestones as
far as the eye can see. Large Japanese companies like Sharp, Nissan, and the
coffee company UCC have secured corporate grave plots for their employees.

We came across a large coffee cup at the grave site of the coffee company, for
example, and a rocket representing another company: employee benefits in
Japanese.

<pic images/rakete.ps A tombstone stands out from the rest. Which one?>

That was the vacation! We are already back in San Francisco and working like
crazy. See you soon! Your adventurers:

Michael and Angelika
