San Francisco, 03-10-2003

@Z: Terror Utility Vehicles

<pic images/suv2.ps A stupid SUV driver>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Finally: An anti-SUV campaign is sweeping across the country. SUV
stands for "Sports Utility Vehicle," a hybrid of a souped-up Jeep and
a small van. One in four people here drives such a monstrosity,
which angers drivers of normally proportioned cars.

We mentioned it in our Christmas list: SUVs are gas guzzlers, block
everyone's view, and take up two parking spaces - unforgivable in a
parking crisis area like San Francisco. The country has always been
divided into three groups: SUV drivers, wannabe SUV owners, and SUV
opponents. Until recently, the latter group consisted of a few
extreme environmentalists and people like us, who deal daily with the
excesses of the SUV plague.

TODO

In the fall of last year, columnist Arianna Huffington suddenly wrote
an article in which she provocatively linked driving an SUV to the
financing of terrorism. Her line of reasoning: SUV = gas guzzler =
more oil needs to be imported from Arab countries to the USA = more
money for Arab states, some of which sponsor terrorism with their
funds.

This might seem far-fetched to you now. But it's important to know in
this context that the Bush administration recently launched an
anti-drug advertising campaign: fresh-faced American teenagers were
shown with the following text overlaid on their faces: "Where do
terrorists get their money? If you buy drugs, some of it might come
from you." This upset the good Arianna so much that she sarcastically
turned the tables in her column, linking SUVs to terrorism, not
knowing (or perhaps knowing?) that she would thereby spark a media
spectacle.

<pic images/suv4.ps September 12th is "Sell Your SUV" Day.>

Meanwhile, she, along with others who are annoyed by SUVs, founded
the so-called...
<LINK>http://www.thedetroitproject.com|Detroit Project</LINK>
and started their own advertising campaign. Two television spots were
produced. In one, you see a man named George who is fueling his SUV:
"This is George. This is the gas that George bought for his SUV. This
is the oil company executive that sold the gas that George bought for
his SUV. These are the countries where the executive bought the oil
that made the gas that George bought for his SUV. And these are the
terrorists who get money from those countries every time George fills
up his SUV. Oil money supports some terrible things. What kind of
mileage does your SUV get?

<pic images/rotten.ps Expensive gasoline>

Some television broadcasters promptly refused to air the commercials,
but the SUV manufacturers still panicked that sales figures might
decline, as they suddenly churned out advertisements promoting the
lower fuel consumption of certain SUV models.

And even President Bush supports the idea of becoming independent
from oil-producing countries: In the annual "State of the Union"
address, which was broadcast a month ago and heavily debated, he
repeatedly brought up the idea of the hydrogen car, which no longer
consumes gasoline and produces no emissions, amidst threats of war.

Due to the Iraq crisis, the oil companies thought: Let's raise the
gasoline prices. And within the last month, the prices at the pumps
skyrocketed by an astonishing 30%. While we used to pay $1.50 per
gallon for regular unleaded gasoline, it now costs $2.03 even at the
discount gas station "Rotten Robbie" in Mountain View!

Since a gallon holds 3.785 liters and the exchange rate is currently
0.91 euros per dollar, this results in a euro price of ... crunch,
crunch ... 0.49 cents per liter. Still significantly cheaper than in
Germany! And still far too cheap to banish the SUV fools from the
road. Let's raise the price per gallon to 5 dollars, we say!

@Z: Risk of a terrorist attack

<em>Angelika</em> 
We have reported several times that since the terrorist attacks in
September 2001, many things have changed in the land of unlimited
possibilities. It is also new that we are being warned about how
likely terrorist attacks are.

Since March 2002, the government has been using a series of color
codes. There are five threat levels, represented by the colors red,
orange, yellow, blue, and green. I can still remember that the color
red represents the highest threat level, but I can no longer recall
whether the risk is greater with blue or green. I claim that the
codes only serve to further frighten the already unsettled citizens.

Just recently, we climbed to the color orange, which--what a
coincidence--coincided with important decisions in the Security
Council and the emergence of the ominous Osama Bin Laden video.
During the news broadcasts on television, the ticker "Terror Alert
High" continuously flashed at us from the edge of the screen, subtly
highlighted in orange. You shouldn't think that we received any
further helpful tips. It always just says: Keep a watchful eye and
live your life as before.

@Z: Duct Tape -- your friend

<pic images/duct.ps Our freezer, patched up with duct tape>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Americans are masters at makeshift repairs of broken things. They
particularly like to use "duct tape," a thick, incredibly strong,
gray adhesive tape. Whether it's the steps in our fitness center, a
cracked windowpane in the streetcar, or the drip tray under the
freezer compartment of our refrigerator, duct tape holds everything
together.

In recent weeks, "Duct Tape" has risen to some fame because the
Department of Homeland Security (the newly established agency
responsible for domestic security in the United States) recommended
that the public stock up on "Duct Tape" and large plastic sheets.
This is to seal themselves inside their homes in the event of a
possible terrorist attack with chemical weapons, meaning to seal the
windows and doors.

A public debate immediately ignited: Some experts considered this
method to be completely nonsensical and pointed out that the
potential suffocation in completely sealed rooms without air
circulation posed a greater danger. TV stations interviewed duct tape
buyers in hardware stores, and David Letterman & Co (comparable to
Harald Schmidt) made "duct tape jokes" on his late show for days.

Funnily enough, lots of "duct tape" and huge plastic garbage bags
have been in our earthquake emergency kits under our bed for a long
time. During my earthquake training, I learned that you can create
all sorts of useful things from them (tents, clothing against rain
and cold, etc.). However, I doubt that they would be of much help
against attacks with chemical weapons.

On the newly established webpage of the "Department of Homeland
Security" with the beautiful name
<LINK>http://www.ready.gov|ready.gov</LINK>
Here are more tips on how to best behave during terrorist attacks
involving biological, nuclear, or the aforementioned chemical
weapons. The whole thing isn't exactly very reassuring. I'm waiting
for people to start building nuclear bunkers again soon. We've been
through that before. Head down, newspaper on top! Ah yes, those were
the days.

<pic images/garage.ps Our house, patched together with duct tape>

The text is asking about the origin of the name "Duct Tape."
Initially, the person thought it might be similar to how "Tesafilm"
is called "Scotch Tape" in America because the manufacturer is named
"Scotch," whereas in Germany, it's called "Tesa." However, the...
(The text cuts off here, so the continuation is missing.)
<LINK>http://www.octanecreative.com/ducttape/duckvsduct.html|Truth about Duct Tape.</LINK>
The translation to English is: "is that the American soldiers in the
Second World War needed a waterproof adhesive tape to seal ammunition
boxes and similar items.

The company "Johnson & Johnson" subsequently produced an olive-green
adhesive tape that withstood all natural elements. The soldiers
called it "Duck Tape," after the duck, which is known to defy water.
After the war, there was a housing boom, and the tape was further
produced in a silver color for home builders, without losing its
indestructibility. Today, the company Henkel (which also makes Persil
in Germany) continues to produce duct tape and holds half of America
together with it.

@Z: Mr. Bush and the War

<pic images/irak3.ps Bush's tactics endanger America and turn the world against us.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Paper is known to be patient, and a lot of printer's ink has been
used in recent months on the Iraq crisis. There have been analyses by
experts, commentaries in various newspapers, discussions, debates,
and quite a bit of polemics, not to mention the systematic
manipulation of public opinion, especially on this side of the
Atlantic.

Just recently, I read in an article by William Greider in the
magazine 'The Nation'(<RBLINK>20021206#7</RBLINK>).
According to a survey by the New York Times and CBS News, 42 percent
of respondents believed that Saddam Hussein was personally
responsible for the attacks on the World Trade Center and the
Pentagon. The propaganda is having an effect. Many of you (and by the
way, countless Americans as well) are rightly asking: Is Bush crazy?
Why is he doing this? Why is he acting like an imperialist warlord?

Not exactly easy questions to answer, but I'll try an analysis. A
cultural difference between Americans and Europeans is that Americans
generally approach life quite pragmatically. Problems are solved as
quickly as possible and often in a rather unconventional manner. In
doing so, Americans don't always necessarily weigh the pros and cons
in detail. The goal is to get the problem out of the way. Long
analyses are unnecessary; action is required, and the associated
risks are accepted. If the problem-solving approach is wrong, the
strategy is simply changed.

<pic images/irak2.ps Stop the American aggression abroad!>

Diplomacy, on the other hand, requires patience. Bush has little of
it. He sees Saddam Hussein as a problem that he wants to get out of
the way. Additionally, every American is often instilled with a
rather naive worldview from childhood, with the motto: America is the
best country in the world with the greatest democracy, only Americans
live in true freedom, etc. To put it bluntly: America is good, and
one should be skeptical of the rest of the world.

Of course, not every American thinks in such a one-dimensional way,
but unfortunately, Bush operates within the black-and-white,
good-or-evil mindset. He displays a missionary zeal in doing so: The
good (in his opinion, American values and democracy in the American
style) must first be brought to Iraq. And like many missionaries
before him, he becomes obsessed with an idea and believes that any
means justifies the end. His almost fundamentalist-tinged belief does
the rest.

Bush considers himself one of the so-called "Born-again Christians,"
who interpret the Bible strictly and very literally. In America,
"Born-again Christians" are typically extremely right-leaning
believers with strict moral views. Incidentally, before his
conversion, Bush was regarded as a right-wing bon vivant who was very
fond of alcohol. That was a long, long time ago!

In conclusion, a few remarks about the gap between America and
Germany, as many of you have expressed concern in your letters to us
-- whether we as Germans can even dare to go out on the streets in
America anymore?

<pic images/irak5.ps No war against Iraq>

As I said, we live in liberal San Francisco, and the people here are
closer to the views of the Germans and French on the Iraq crisis than
to their own government. No one here supports Bush's policies. In San
Francisco, the population protests against the war just like in
Europe. When I was in the darkroom last week, an American woman told
me that I should be glad to be German. She, on the other hand, said
she was now ashamed to be American. She meant it quite seriously. So,
be kind to the Americans; not all of them want to be lumped together,
and not everyone stands firmly behind Bush.

@Z: Goodwill

<pic images/goodwill1.ps Goodwill - A Noble Store from the Front>

<em>Angelika</em> 
As sure as the amen in church, taxes are due in America on April
15th. And like everywhere else in the world, at the end of the year,
tax-savvy individuals try to make a few donations to get some of it
back on their taxes.

In addition to monetary donations, the American tax office also
allows clothing donations to charitable organizations to be deducted
from taxes. And since I thought it was urgently necessary to clean
out our wardrobe in December, I'll let you in on how it's done. Of
course, you can't declare the new value of the clothing on your tax
return, but rather the so-called second-hand price.

<pic images/goodwill2.ps Goodwill - Clothing donations are accepted.>

I initially believed naively that the tax office would provide price
lists. Far from it. It's a good thing the internet exists, where I
found price recommendations. To avoid any difficulties during a
potential tax audit later on (in America, you typically don't send
certificates or receipts with your tax return; they only need to be
presented during an audit), I diligently listed every single piece of
clothing. After all, I am the daughter of a tax advisor.

It is important to bring the clothing to an organization recognized
by the tax office, such as homeless shelters, the Salvation Army, or
Goodwill. Goodwill is a large, now international, non-profit
organization with the goal of providing people with disabilities or
other disadvantages with career opportunities through training and
employment opportunities. To finance this, Goodwill sells donated
clothing and household goods in their own stores.

<pic images/gwr2.ps Goodwill-Richtlinien>

In San Francisco, there is a large Goodwill that also accepts
donations, located at the corner of South Van Ness and Mission. So I
drove up with our Perlman. In the parking lot, there was a truck
trailer, and friendly men immediately loaded my bags of clothes into
it.

<pic images/gwr.ps There's even a tax receipt.>

The tax certificate for the tax office was already prepared. I just
had to fill in my name and address, specify the value of the donated
clothing, and in a flash, an employee signed it and praised me highly
for the attached detailed list (apparently, no one does that), and I
gained another experience.

@Z: The newsletter top product

<pic images/listerine.ps (#3) The Listerine breath strip>

<em>Michael</em> 
Every now and then, there are products that initially evoke sheer
horror. Who, for example, would come up with the idea of pulling a
tape-like strip from a dispenser, putting it in their mouth, and
using their tongue to stick it to the roof of their mouth, where it
stays?

Listerine is the name of this product and it is currently very
popular in the USA. The strip consists of an ultra-thin film that
slowly dissolves in the mouth, releasing a fresh mint flavor of
Fisherman's Friend caliber. This provides about ten minutes of
freshness without the need for annoying chewing!

The placement process is admittedly somewhat unusual. In an episode of the TV
series "The Osbournes" (<RBLINK>20020723#6</RBLINK>), which are now also
available in Germany, Ozzy Osbourne gave them a try, but made a face like a
toddler being fed spinach and uttered words that American television censored
with wild beeping sounds.

But one advantage cannot be overlooked: Unlike chewing gum, with
palate tape in your mouth, you don't speak Texan gibberish in
meetings but speak clearly and distinctly. Especially tasty after
spicy Indian, Thai, or Vietnamese food.

@Z: Religions of the World

<pic images/tbaj.ps The phrase "To be a Jew" clarifies Jewish customs.>

<em>Michael</em> 
It's hard to believe now, but two or three hundred years ago, America
was still a refuge for all those who were considered peculiar
somewhere in old Europe or had done something that violated the laws
of their home country. Once they arrived in their new homeland, they
continued to maintain their peculiar traditions, and since everyone
valued their own peculiarity, a consensus was soon found: Everyone is
entitled to their favorite peculiarity, as long as it doesn't harm
anyone else! This is still reflected today: Freedom of religion is
one of the most inviolable things in America.

That's why we're introducing a new series in our newsletter:
"Religions in the Metropolis" -- and what Europeans don't know about
them. Today: Judaism. This is rather rare in San Francisco, but if
you've ever been to New York City, you've surely noticed the Orthodox
Jews who are dressed all in black, wear wide-brimmed hats, and, as we
want to highlight today, let their sideburns grow long. What's the
reason behind this? "You shall not destroy the corners of your beard"
(Lev. 19:27) is stated in the Torah, and this primarily referred to
the chin and the area around the ears. It was interpreted to mean
that only razors were forbidden, while it was permissible to trim the
beard with scissors. Modern electric shavers don't work like a razor
but more like scissors, so it is now acceptable for devout Jews to
shave cleanly in accordance with their religion. However, the same
verse states, "You shall not round the corners of your head," which,
according to Orthodox Jews, also applies to trimming the sideburns
with scissors. Therefore, they do not cut them but twist them and let
them grow throughout their lives.

How do I know this? In America, there are books about just
everything. There's a lot of entertaining information about Jewish
customs and traditions in "To Be a Jew" by Rabbi Hayim Halevy Donin.
It was recommended to me by a Jewish colleague who received it for
his Bar Mitzvah (something like a confirmation).

Strictly observant Jews are not allowed to work on Saturdays, by the
way. If you've ever been to New York City, you probably know "B&H
Photo," the famous photo store on 9th Avenue (at the corner of 33rd
Street), which offers high-quality photo products at affordable
prices. Take a look at their opening hours:

<HTMLONLY>
<PRE>
    Sunday: 10:00 am to 5:00 p.m.<BR>
    Monday through Thursday: 9:00 am to 7:00 p.m. <BR>
    Friday (winter EST): 9:00 am to 1:00 p.m.<BR>
    Friday (Summer DST): 9:00 am to 2:00 p.m. <BR>
    Saturday: Closed 
</PRE>
</HTMLONLY>

Correct: The store is run by devout Jews who honor the Sabbath. For
several years now, B&H has also been on the internet on
<LINK>http://bhphotovideo.com|bhphotovideo.com</LINK>.
The company handles orders for just about every photographer in the
entire country -- but that doesn't change the fact that no one works
there on Saturdays: The website is operational, but customer service
is closed and orders are not processed until Sunday.

<pic images/kosher.ps (#13) Kosher pickles>

You might have already heard the word "kosher." Whenever I buy
pickles, I wonder about the "Kosher" label (illustration (#13)). It
means something like "okay" when referring to people ("You know, that
guy isn't quite kosher!"), but it mostly relates to food: "Kosher"
food contains only permitted ingredients and is prepared according to
Jewish religious laws. This generally means: No pork. A few thousand
years ago, it was risky to eat pork (due to trichinosis), as it
spoiled quickly because of the lack of hygiene regulations. Nowadays,
Jews avoid pork for the same reason Catholics avoid meat on Fridays:
Tradition.

On the Sabbath, turning electrical devices on and off is also
prohibited. However, what is already turned on is allowed and even
must continue to run. To enable strictly observant Jews to cook a
warm meal on the Sabbath, the American company GE offers a
<LINK>https://products.geappliances.com/appliance/gea-support-search-content?contentId=17357|Stove with Sabbath mode</LINK>.
It's continuously running at full speed all day, but turns off
its display and does not beep under any circumstances.

Another rule is "You shall not boil a kid in its mother’s milk," which has been
interpreted to mean that meat and milk may not be cooked together. This makes
beef fried in butter off-limits for strictly observant Jews.  Beef in creamy
sauces is also taboo.  The rule was even extended to chicken, so no "Kan Kari
Gai" at the Thai restaurant either.  And in the kitchen, separate pots are used
for meat and milk. Even the dish towels used to dry washed plates—on which
either milk or meat was served—are color-coded!  And after eating meat, one
must wait several hours before consuming any dairy products!

Jews are also not allowed to eat blood; blood sausage is out. Meat
must be either roasted or salted until no blood remains. There are
also restrictions with fish: only those with fins and scales are
allowed. No lobster, no oysters, no shrimp, mussels, or crabs, no eel
or snails.

What does all this have to do with cucumbers, how could they not be
kosher? It's about ensuring that no ingredient is of animal origin,
or if it is, that it complies with kosher regulations. Our cucumbers
seem to be okay. Well, we all got lucky there.

@Z: Curb Your Enthusiasm

<pic images/larry.ps Larry David (right) in "Curb Your Enthusiasm>

<em>Michael</em> 
By now, we have probably watched each of the hundred Seinfeld
episodes four or five times. I know almost every dialogue by heart. I
think in Seinfeld plotlines. I often catch myself using the sentence
structures and timing of Seinfeld episodes when I tell a funny story
in English.

What is so special about Seinfeld? Why is it funnier by magnitudes
than anything else? Than, let's say, "Cheers" or "Married with
Children"? So much funnier that it doesn't just play in a completely
different league, but in a completely different humor universe?

Since the show "Curb Your Enthusiasm" by and with Seinfeld writer
Larry David has been on the premium channel HBO, I know it: The
difference is called Larry David. He's the guy who wrote all the
Seinfeld scripts, who makes those absurd jokes about essentially
taboo subjects, who lets the actors rush headlong into these
grotesque situations. The show "Seinfeld" does draw some comedic
energy from its actors: Jerry Seinfeld is quite funny, Jason
Alexander and Julia Louis-Dreyfus portray "George" and "Elaine"
excellently, and Michael Richards ("Kramer") could also shine in a
scriptless comedy because he simply plays world-class slapstick --
but other shows have that too.

The script by Larry David makes the difference. This became apparent
to me when I saw "Curb Your Enthusiasm" for the first time about a
year ago: In this unpolished, even downright anarchic show, which
places no value on acting skills (Larry David plays himself, and the
rest of the cast are third-rate actors), the team goes through
typical Seinfeld everyday odysseys, only much more hair-raising.

Larry David is accosted by a homeowner for throwing a piece of paper
into their trash can as he walks by. Or an acquaintance gets upset
because Larry thanks her husband for paying for dinner but not her,
since she doesn't earn any money! Or Larry is criticized by a Black
friend just because he fires his Black TV repairman!

And parallels to Seinfeld become clear: The bald Larry David, who
suffers greatly from his lack of hair, is clearly behind the
character "George" in Seinfeld. By the way, the theme music
"Diddeldi-didaddeldadi-dididdeldedi-Wui-Bah!" strongly reminds me of
the Munich series "Monaco Franze," which I love very much.
Coincidence?

@Z: The Boat Is Full

<em>Michael</em> 
If you have read our explanations on the topic of "Green Card," the
following news should not really surprise you: At the moment, it is
almost impossible to obtain a work visa or a Green Card through an
employer.

Why? As we've explained back in <RBLINK>20010905#7</RBLINK>,
one of the first necessary steps for permanent residency this is the Labor
Certification from the Department of Labor, which certifies that
the employer who wants to hire the foreigner cannot find an American
for the position in question. This usually involved the employer
advertising the position in the newspaper for 6 months and reviewing
any applicants who responded. If no suitable applicant was found by
the end of the period, the gentleman or lady from overseas received
the okay from the Department of Labor, the 'Labor Certificate'.

The job market has been severely shaken in recent years, and many
software developers are out of work. The days when job openings went
unfilled for months, with either no applicants or only unqualified
ones, are long gone. Except in very rare cases where globally unique
specialists are needed, no software company can currently provide the
proof required for the "Labor Certificate"--and as a result, it's
becoming increasingly difficult to obtain work-related green cards.

And even for the people who have already gone through all the
necessary steps over the past few years and are now just waiting for
the actual card to be issued, unexpected hurdles are arising: Rumor
has it that the INS installed new computers at the beginning of the
year and hasn't sent out any green cards since December. The people
who are ready to go are getting restless, as March is approaching.
But well, the INS is notorious for its snail's pace, so let's give
them six months, which is just about a week on the INS clock.

Small addendum from Angelika: The delays are also due to the fact
that the Immigration Office was subordinated to the newly created
'Department of Homeland Security' and split into two agencies.
Officially, it is no longer called INS (Immigration and
Naturalization Services), but Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration
Services (BCIS), which is still responsible for issuing Green Cards,
visas, and processing applications for American citizenship. The
other branch of the agency, 'Borders and Transportation Security,' is
now responsible for securing the borders and tracking down
individuals who violate immigration laws. At the moment, there seems
to be complete chaos, and no one knows who is responsible for what.

@Z: The Record Of the Month

<em>Michael</em> 
Anyone who follows the music scene closely will not be surprised by
this month's choice: Of course, "Mary Star of the Sea" by "Zwan".
What, who?

<pic images/zwan.ps Mary Star of the Sea>

Oh well, "Zwan" is indeed the reincarnation of Billy Corgan, the head of the
"Smashing Pumpkins." I was very sad when they broke up and even went to one of
their last concerts in Berkeley (a certain Mr. Speck was there and can
testify!). Really a great band. This guy Corgan, of course, is a genius,
perhaps, and I am not afraid to say it, of the caliber of John Lennon.

The new record needs to be listened to about 20 times, then not only
the chart hit "Honestly" fascinates, but every other song on it as
well, when you dive into the Corgan universe. A milestone! I hope the
man never stops writing music. By the way, the next single to be
released will be "Baby, let's rock," and as always, you'll read about
it first in the newsletter.

The most embarrassing favorite song of mine this month, by the way,
is "In da Club" by "50 Cents". I've watched the video at least 100
times on MTV. Of course, on TiVo, which records the daily "MTV
Wakeup" so that I can stay in touch with the youth even as an old
geezer. Angelika always freaks out when hip-hop sounds echo through
the living room: "When I pull up out front, You'll see the Benz on
Dubz, When I roll 20 deep it's always drama in the club ..." -- but
it's really good, no kidding!

<pic images/50c.ps (#4) Bad Uncle '50 Cents.>

When I bought the record, I was surprised to find that the
corresponding line is quite different: "When I pull up out front, you
see the Benz on Dubz, When I roll 20 deep, it's 20 nines in the
club," which means that the Mercedes driver and all the other gang
members are illegally bringing 9-millimeter guns into the club! For
those interested, here is an excellent translation of the not
entirely family-friendly song (for which you also need to understand
American slang well to avoid misunderstandings):
<LINK>http://www.citay.de/texte/0_9/50_club.html|www.citay.de</LINK>
.

Also, the word 'nigga' is constantly used. I need to elaborate a bit on this:
About 150 years ago, when slavery was still practiced in the USA, it was common
to contemptuously refer to Black people as 'niggers.' Nowadays, this is a slur
so severe that it cannot even be said in jest or when quoting someone else. As
a white person, in such a situation, you would say: 'He said the N-word.' Make
no mistake: In the USA, there is no shortage of vulgar expressions, the caliber
of which would cause sheer horror in Germany. As I have mentioned before in
<RBLINK>20010701#2</RBLINK>, it's explosively funny to call someone a 'Nazi'
when they strictly adhere to stupid rules.

And typically, people from lower social classes pepper every other
sentence with a bad word for which there is no proper German
translation. However, calling someone a "nigger" is absolutely taboo
for everyone--racists are not well-regarded in the USA either. While
Americans tend to be quite indifferent and deliberately look the
other way when someone is shouting or otherwise losing it, there is
suddenly a reaction from otherwise lethargic people when a racist
remark is made. On the "Caltrain," I once witnessed an entire train
car full of people booing a drunk person because he said "Go back to
China" to an Asian woman.

On the other hand, it has become common in the last 15 years or so
for Black people to refer to each other as "niggas." It's not refined;
this word would not be uttered by anyone in a high position. However,
you encounter it frequently in street or gang dialects. As a white
person, though, you can't use it.

It is common practice for record companies to release toned-down
versions of songs with offensive content or lyrics with bad words, so
that "clean" channels like MTV can play them. If there is no
cleaned-up version, the songs, as previously explained
in <RBLINK>20001204#5</RBLINK>, are edited with masking bleep tones before
broadcasting, or certain parts have been muted while the music track
continues to play. The record with the original songs then carries a
small sticker with the inscription "PARENTAL ADVISORY EXPLICIT
CONTENT" ("We alert parents to explicit lyrics"), as you can see in
Figure (#4) at the bottom left.

In America, the First Amendment with "free speech" does apply, but
radio and television stations are censored due to an agency called
the <LINK>http://www.fcc.gov|FCC (Federal Communications Commission)>,
which has full government support.

From gangsta rappers to the Gulf War to the likely next bombardment
in Iraq: Mr. and Mrs. America are shown a Disneyworld parody of
reality on television. Clean green-blue flashes in the night sky to
eliminate the "axis of evil," and polished videos of rappers who are
actually incompatible with the government for mass entertainment. The
circle closes.

Greetings from the glued-together country

Angelika & Michael
