San Francisco, 05-18-2004

@Z: The Speedo Trap

<pic images/l1.ps Long short pants>

<em>Michael</em> Whoever wears German swimsuits in the USA causes laughter of a
special kind. I was not aware of this fact for a long time and often went
swimming in the typically German and tight, called "Speedos" in American,
swimsuits. I received many strange looks.

What I didn't know was that heterosexual Americans never wear anything skimpier
than boxershorts. Anything else may be fashionable on hot days at Dolores Park
in San Francisco, where the toned men of the gay scene bask in the sun. But it
would never occur to the average American to wear a tight-fitting swimsuit.

<pic images/dolores.ps At Dolores Park, mainly good-looking men are sunbathing.>

Also, even the shorts for men are longer in the US than in Europe. For
heterosexual men, it's almost to the knee. I would draw the line at a hand's
breadth above the knee. In San Francisco's Castro district, around our corner,
you can also often see slightly more revealing clothing pieces, like hotpants,
but only for those who like it!

In predominantly American-populated tourist destinations such as Hawaii, where
few Germans wander, it is a hilarious sight to observe self-confidently
striding typically-German (TM) in Speedos on the beach who have not yet noticed
the difference! Even Linux creator Linus Torvalds, who is known to have been
living in America for a long time, seems to be unaware of this fact, as the
pictures from <LINK>https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bclhry9F9Bc|Linus
Dunk</LINK> prove. Granted, it's not easy to figure out. But it's still funny!

@Z: Fight against obesity: The Atkins Diet.

<pic images/atkins2.ps und Sandwiches.

The fast food chain "Subway" has a new "Atkins-friendly" menu with salads and sandwiches.>
 
<em>Angelika</em> Europeans have always scoffed at the fat Americans. That 2/3
of the American population struggles with overweight and 1/3 of them are
medically considered obese is no secret here in the USA either.

Nowadays, there are increasingly fatter children because the kids eat too much
fast food and hang out in front of the TV and computer for hours. That children
develop juvenile diabetes due to bad eating habits can almost be called a
trend. Desperate parents therefore initially tried to sue McDonald's, since the
fast food chain did not clearly warn of the health risks of its product range.
This typical American way of dragging everyone to court still seems absurd to
us.

Even the diet craze is not new. Every American book store has an impressive
selection of books that are meant to help reduce pounds. Then there are the
various talk shows that present dramatic success stories: people who suddenly
fit into their old pants three times, smiling happily into the camera. Lately,
you can also find entertainment shows in which a whole group fights their
overweight together and is accompanied by television cameras for months.

There is no shortage of theories as to why Americans are gaining more and more
weight. There is a preference for large portions and fast food. Unhealthy food
is cheaper than healthy food (which is true). No time to cook healthier meals,
lack of exercise, too much fat in food, too many carbohydrates. And on the
packaging of each product, there are indications of calories, carbohydrates,
etc. printed - but these always refer to a so-called "serving size", not to the
entire package. So if someone eats the whole bag of chips, they wonder why they
are consuming ten times the amount of calories!

The fear of high fat content in food led to a boom in reduced-fat products
here. In every American supermarket you can find low-fat chips, cookies and the
like. It happens to me from time to time that I grab the wrong - reduced-fat -
bag. A misery, because the stuff simply tastes artificial and usually ends up
in the trash can with us. My motto is: If chips, then the right ones.

<pic images/atkins4.ps Low-Carb Cookies: 120 Calories, 9 Net Carbs per "Serving Size".>

But I always get the real crisis in front of the shelf with the dairy products.
You almost need telepathic abilities to find the full-fat yoghurt or the
full-fat milk. There is usually only one type of "full-fat variant". Everything
else is low-fat or non-fat. Now I know that this trend has now also infected
Germany. I just pray fervently that my German favorite chips will be spared.

For some time now, America has been in the second phase of its fight against
obesity. No longer is fat the focus of the debate, but rather the "evil"
carbohydrates. The blame for this lies with American doctor Robert Atkins, who
more than 30 years ago caused nutritionists around the world to shudder with
his low-carbohydrate, high-fat diet. Atkins assumes that the consumption of
carbohydrates stimulates insulin production, which can not only lead to
stronger feelings of hunger but also to fat storage. On the other hand, if one
abstains from bread, pasta, rice and highly sugary drinks, etc., the body will
in turn burn fat.

Critics of the Atkins diet don't necessarily dispute this, but they are
disturbed by the allowed consumption of foods with a high fat content due to
the increased risk of heart disease. However, the fact is that most people lose
weight with Atkins. Many nutritionists, however, attribute the weight loss to
the reduced calorie intake under the Atkins diet.

Nevertheless: Atkins has been on everyone's lips for the past 2-3 years. I know
some followers of the diet, which you can always tell because there is no bread
on their plate. The popularity of this low-carbohydrate diet was not affected
by the death of Robert Atkins in 2003, which was accompanied by malicious
rumors. It was rumored that Atkins was overweight at the time of his death and
had a few extra pounds.

In any case, the pragmatic American businessmen smell ringing cash registers
with the Atkins fans. Several restaurant and fast food chains have already
adapted to these customers. So there are Atkins-friendly menus at "Subway" and
"TGI Friday's" ("Thank God it's Friday). For example, the New York steak with
blue cheese crumbles is only 6 carbohydrates at TGI Friday's. From now on,
customers at Burger King can also happily bite into a hamburger without a bun,
the minced meat patty is held together by a lettuce leaf.

<pic images/atkins3.ps Even ice cream on a stick is available as a low-carb product with an Atkins label.>

Even manufacturers of various spirits are now advertising that their high-proof
distillates contain no carbohydrates! In addition, more and more products with
reduced carbohydrate content are quietly and secretly entering American
supermarkets. According to the magazine Consumer Reports, there are now 930
such products on the American market: beer, ice cream, cookies, cake -
everything the heart desires. They then have such nice names like "Atkins
Endulge" or "Carb Smart". "Carb" refers to "carbohydrates" - the English term
for carbohydrates.

Even Coca-Cola is coming out with a new cola this summer that contains fewer
carbohydrates. Usually, the sugar is replaced by sugar alcohols or fermented
carbohydrates, which allegedly stimulate insulin production in the body less
than regular sugar. The packaging of the "low-carb" (=low carbohydrate)
products then advertises how many carbohydrates are hidden in the product,
although the current American food law does not yet define what is considered
low.

Generally, few carbohydrates in a product does not necessarily mean few
calories. The idea that it is okay to indulge in low-carb cookies does not hold
up. What I find interesting about the whole carbohydrate story is that the
country is again taking the motto "all or nothing". Americans tend to be a bit
extreme in this regard. We already saw this in the fight against smokers in
California (now you can't even smoke on the beach in Santa Monica). And once
they had set their sights on the enemy "carbohydrates", there was no stopping
them.

TODO
