
San Francisco, 08-26-2004

<pic images/newpanorama.ps The new view from our window>

@Z: Moving in the USA

<em>Angelika:</em> 
We have been living in San Francisco for almost 8 years now and have
never moved apartments. This was partly due to the unaffordable rents
in San Francisco and partly because of Michael's refusal to move--he
dreaded all the work involved. Way back in Munich, I managed the move to
America all by myself, as Michael had left seven weeks before me,
armed with only two small travel bags!

We were also very attached to our old apartment. The view was
priceless, and it was our first place in San Francisco. However, the
space in the two-room apartment (called a "one-bedroom" in America)
became extremely tight due to the clutter accumulated over the years.
Michael insists that he must own every Perl book on the planet, and
I'm not far behind with my thousand and one boxes filled with my
photos.

TODO

But anyone who moves naturally wants to improve their situation, so
we created the following list of requirements: three rooms (called
"two-bedroom"), with a balcony and a fantastic view, as well as a
garage (indispensable in the parking crisis area of San Francisco).
We wanted to live on the top floor of the building so that in the
event of an earthquake, the neighbor wouldn't fall on our heads.

The "stomp factor" is also not to be underestimated in American
houses in this regard. Due to the lightweight wooden construction,
normal walking already sounds like elephants trampling. When we stay
in a two-story motel, we always make sure to stay upstairs. The new
apartment had to face the back, not the street, and be located in our
beloved neighborhood of "Noe Valley." We also needed the so-called
"Rent Control." It ensures that the rent remains stable, as it did
once before in...
<RBLINK>000801#8</RBLINK>
The German word "beschrieben" translates to "described" in English.

<pic images/rent.ps A 4-room (3-bedroom) apartment in the Mission is
for rent ...>

For a long time, we had dismissed this list as completely unrealistic
and, consequently, weren't even looking for a new apartment. But in
recent months, "For Rent" signs have been appearing more frequently
on doors and windows in our neighborhood. This doesn't mean that
rents have dramatically decreased, but the situation in San Francisco
is no longer as crazy as it was during the dot-com boom. You no
longer have to pay a fortune for a rat hole.

The principle of the "For Rent" sign is, by the way, a popular method
here to rent out an apartment. The sign usually displays a phone
number that prospective tenants can call to learn more about the
apartment and arrange a viewing appointment. This works particularly
well in busy areas with a lot of foot traffic. Some apartments and
houses are also available for sale, and there are signs for that as
well.

And then, of course, there is "Craigslist" in San Francisco, a true
institution that is known by everyone who wants to sell something, is
looking for a job, or wants to make connections. Every landlord and
apartment seeker also knows the website address "www.craigslist.org"
by heart.

<pic images/rent3.ps ... with 2400 dollars per month, however, not
our price range.>

article about it. Like a newspaper, the website lists, among other
things, housing offers. Craigslist, by the way, started in 1994 in
San Francisco when a certain Craig Newmark (hence the name) began
sending listings of events in and around San Francisco via email to
his friends and acquaintances. The list became very popular and kept
growing, so that now 15 permanent employees work for Craig. The
newspaper "San Francisco Chronicle" recently published an interesting
article about it.
<LINK>http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?f=/c/a/2004/08/15/NEW
MARK.TMP|Interview</LINK>
with the local hero. 'Craigslist' is now available in 45 cities in
the USA, with branches in Canada and England. The internet company
makes money by charging companies and employers $75 (in San
Francisco) to list a job offer.

One afternoon in May, we were strolling down 24th Street in our
neighborhood and saw a "For Rent" sign. Since the sign advertised the
apartment's spectacular view, I quickly picked up the phone and
scheduled a viewing. And lo and behold: The apartment met all our
requirements and even boasted an open fireplace. This convinced even
Michael, who is usually reluctant to move, because he is known to
love playing with fire. Additionally, the new apartment was already
an old acquaintance: We had been able to see it for years from our
old apartment.

Since we were seriously interested in the apartment after the
viewing, we filled out the customary "Application." Typically, you
provide your employer, monthly income, Social Security Number, and
driver's license number on it. The landlord has the right to verify
the information and check the credit report (see...
<RBLINK>20040518#4</RBLINK>
Some landlords also require the potential tenant to bring the credit
report to the viewing appointment. By the way, the credit report
almost became Michael's downfall when we rented our first apartment.
Freshly arrived from Germany, it was just a blank sheet of paper.
Thankfully, the other applicant had a cat, and the cat-less Michael
therefore outshone him. This time, everything went smoothly, and we
eventually signed the lease agreement.

In San Francisco, it is common to commit to renting an apartment for
a year, after which a monthly notice period applies. A security
deposit is also paid, typically amounting to one and a half to two
months' rent. As in Germany, the landlord may retain the deposit if
the tenant damages the apartment or falls behind on rent. Over the
years, the tenant earns interest on the deposit amount. The
municipal...
<LINK>http://www.ci.sf.ca.us/site/rentboard_page.asp?id=5941|Rent
Board" translates to English as "Rent Board." It is already in
English. If you meant to translate it from another language, please
provide the original language.</LINK>
The (tenant office) sets the annual interest rate in the process.

When you move, you naturally also submit a forwarding request for the
mail in America. The United States Postal Service is very modern in
this regard, as the address change can be done online for a fee of
$1. However, if you submit the request directly at the post office,
there is no charge. Most mail is forwarded to the new address for
free for one year. For magazines and newspapers, this is limited to 2
months. And, lo and behold, the mail forwarding even works, but
that's thanks to our great mail carrier George, who has been working
in our neighborhood for over 20 years (an absolute record by American
standards) and continues to be responsible for us. Hooray!

Everyone knows that America does not have a registration law.
However, in California, you must inform the Department of Motor
Vehicles (called DMV) of your address change within 10 days. And
Green Card holders like us (as well as visa holders) cannot avoid
sending their new address to the immigration authorities -- also
within 10 days.

The latter, by the way, should not be taken lightly. Although this
regulation has existed for ages, the immigration authorities did not
pursue negligence in this regard. However, after the terrorist
attacks on September 11, 2001, people were suddenly arrested for not
sending the address change form to the immigration authorities, as
the authorities used this violation as a pretext to detain people.

<pic images/sale.ps Apartment for sale in Potrero Hill>

This led, in turn, to all foreigners suddenly reporting their address
changes like crazy, and the immigration office was completely
inundated with forms. I sent everything by registered mail with a
return receipt to ensure that we could prove that we had sent the
stuff on time.

It's a good thing the internet exists because anyone can download the
forms from the immigration authority's server. Hats off, most
American authorities are really on the ball in this regard.

<em>Michael:</em> 
After almost eight years in the USA, we thought nothing could shock
us anymore. You get used to a lot of things: nothing here is
reliable. It's the exception when something actually works as
promised. Whenever someone confirms something to me, I've made it a
habit to make a note in my calendar. A week later, there's an entry
reminding me to check if what was promised actually happened. In 90%
of cases, it doesn't work out, and then you have to do the so-called
"follow-up.

When reminding someone, you must remain friendly, because no one
wants to be reminded of their own sloppiness. So instead of saying,
"Why wasn't this done?" you should say, "Have you had the opportunity
to address XY?" "Not yet? Hmm, do you think you could get to it this
week?" You need the patience of a saint for this. Those who can't
handle it and lose their temper will end up frustrated and won't make
any progress, as people will become stubborn.

What happened during the move, however, knocked us both out: Two
weeks earlier, we called the local telephone company "SBC" to request
that the line be moved one street over while keeping the same number.
"No problem, we'll take care of it!" they said, and I became
suspicious. Why is it so easy? "Do I really not need to do anything
else for the line to be switched in fourteen days?" "No, you're all
set!" I didn't quite want to believe it, but okay.

<pic images/kamin.ps Michael lit a fire in the fireplace and cozied
up with his laptop (wireless internet!).>

The next morning, our phone was dead. I called the local telephone
company with my cell phone. Yes, the line had been switched. "But the
agreed date was the 29th -- today is the 15th." "Hmm, yes, you're
right, today is not the 29th." "Can you fix it?" "Sure, no problem,
where can we reach you -- at your registered phone number?" "No.
That's why I'm calling." "Oh, I see." Good grief.

It continued like this. In the new apartment, neither the phone nor
the DSL connection worked. I had to call two different companies for
both and insist for hours that it wasn't my phone or my DSL router
that was defective, but rather that the line simply wasn't working:
"We know this, it's usually the phone." "I've had this phone for
seven years, and it has always worked perfectly." "It could still be
broken." "I have a second, identical phone. That one doesn't work
either." "Alright, we'll send someone over, but if it's your fault,
we'll charge you." Madness. Dealing with the customer service of the
local telephone monopoly "SBC" feels like being in East Germany.

But thanks to the thick skin developed over many years by our
American professionals, we have managed to clean up the chaos step by
step. During the cleanup, unnecessary furniture was also given away
or sold. Slowly, normality is returning. But I guarantee that I won't
be moving again in the next twenty years.

@Z: Free Stuff

<pic images/free1.ps A box with old junk placed in front of the door
...>

Americans are often accused of producing excessive waste. This is
often true when you think of the plastic bag madness in supermarkets
and the practically non-existent waste separation in rural areas.
However, there is a recycling process here that I was not familiar
with from Germany.
1

1

On August 15th at 1:54 PM, we repeated an experiment that had already
been conducted dozens of times for the newsletter: An old plastic box
with leftover items from the move was placed on the sidewalk in front
of the house with a note attached. The box contained: two wire
baskets for hanging in a shelf, a dish rack, an old telephone, and 50
ballpoint pens that I had once received as promotional gifts.

<pic images/free2.ps ... and an hour later everything is gone,
including the box!>

Approximately two hours later, at 3:49:33 PM, I went down again, and
lo and behold: everything was gone, including the box.

I once put down a box of read German books and attached a large note:
"GERMAN LANGUAGE BOOKS," since the contents were only readable by a
small minority and not everyone else should have to reach into the
box to find this out.

Shortly afterwards, the box was gone, and Angelika happened to
discover a homeless man on the other side of the street, offering the
books for sale on the sidewalk and demonstratively holding a German
crime novel open as if he were reading it. Unfortunately, she didn't
have the courage to photograph the scene.

<pic images/gsale.ps Garage Sale>

If you have a lot of time and enjoy sitting on the sidewalk for
hours, you can also get rid of old stuff through a "garage sale." You
simply start a private flea market in front of your garage (if you
don't have one, just do it on the sidewalk) and sell the items to
passersby and curious occupants of stopping cars. This business is
particularly popular on weekends, when you often see half a dozen
cars parked haphazardly in front of some people with their junk
spread out on the sidewalk. It's unbelievable what can be sold; some
people probably buy the stuff just to resell it at their own "garage
sale.

@Z: Incident in the Netscape Parking Lot

<pic images/s2.ps A gopher snake in the Netscape parking lot crawls
out of the bushes ...>

It was a completely normal workday in June when I routinely rode my
bike into the Netscape parking lot at ten o'clock in the morning. I
was just about to open the door to the building when the security
guard, who always makes sure everyone is wearing their "badge"
(company ID), indicated to me that there was a snake in the parking
lot. And indeed: just a few meters away, a patterned snake about 2
meters long and three to four centimeters thick was slithering
through the bushes!

<pic images/s3.ps ... under a car ...>

Quickly, I went into the building, informed my colleagues, grabbed
the camera from my backpack, and soon everyone rushed out to marvel
at the spectacle! An expert among the people responsible for building
maintenance identified it as a so-called "Gopher Snake," a
non-venomous snake that preys on ground squirrels. A SUV was quickly
brought around, a billiard cue and a trash can were fetched from the
game room, and after some back and forth, the snake was placed
inside.

My suggestion to simply drive them to Microsoft and let them loose in
the parking lot was brusquely rejected "for legal reasons,"
unfortunately! No sense of humor, these Americans!

<pic images/s4.ps ... and is eventually captured by fearless security
personnel.>

@Z: Closeness to citizens through propositions

<pic images/prop.ps Propositions>

At the county and state level, there is a vibrant system of
referendums in California. Busy individuals constantly introduce
proposals for changes in the law, known as "propositions." For
example, a recent proposal in the city of San Francisco debated
whether to give homeless people food stamps instead of money. In such
cases, interest groups hire young people to approach local eligible
pedestrians on the streets and persuade them to add their address and
signature to a list. If a certain number of valid signatures are
collected, the proposal can be publicly voted on in the next
election.

To avoid having to explain the sometimes complex proposals in every
detail, those responsible assign them letters at the county level and
numbers at the state level. For example, the proposal against
same-sex marriage was labeled as "Proposition 22," and the
homelessness debacle was referred to as "N." On mini election
posters, often hung on street lamps, you might see slogans like "Yes
on N, safer Taxis, safer Streets!" and the informed citizen needs to
know what that means.

<pic images/gaccess.ps The live broadcast of the city council meeting
with a representative of the restaurant industry in the foreground.>

The meetings of the "Supervisors" are, by the way, broadcast live on
local television channels. This might seem completely crazy to you,
but it is highly interesting to watch these extremely smart and
dedicated people during these transparent sessions. Recently, a
proposal was up for debate in San Francisco that would require
restaurants, like in Los Angeles, to prominently display the results
of the latest health department inspection at the entrance: It would
show an "A," "B," or "C," allowing customers to assess the health
risk they might be exposed to when entering the establishment.

What fascinates me about it is how friendly and collegial these
people are with each other: There is indeed competition and political
games, but time and again, the representatives of the restaurant
industry were addressed kindly with "You Guys," sometimes there was
even laughter, and discussions are generally conducted in a very
factual manner. Hats off to these people, who really commit
themselves to their city in meetings that often last late into the
evening.

@Z: The translation of "The Lost Coast II" to English is "The Lost
Coast II." The title is already in English.

<pic images/perlman.ps The PERL MAN races along the Lost Coast.>

The regular readers will remember, in
<RBLINK>981015#2</RBLINK>
We have already reported on the "Lost Coast," the stretch of
coastline near Mendocino that is cut off from Highway 1.

Because it was so nice back then, we did it again: This time we
really sped along deserted, unpaved country roads right by the ocean,
and the good old "PERL MAN" even had to cross a small stream. He did
creak a bit when the underbody slid over a small rock, but he made it
through without any damage to the oil pan. As a reward, he got a hand
car wash at home.

<pic images/strand.ps A beach of black stones>

The beaches of the "Lost Coast" are truly unique and generally
deserted. You only come across quite large (20 cm in diameter),
plump, colorful starfish that you can toss back into the water with a
stick if you're in a good mood. By the way, starfish are called
"starfish" in English and not "sea star," as Angelika once amusingly
said in kindergarten.

<pic images/stern.ps A starfish on the beach of the Lost Coast>

However, you can forget about going there: Last week, the place
"Shelter Cove" on the Lost Coast was on TV. The series "Bay Area
Backroads" reported on it in detail and, here's the kicker, even
showed our motel room called "Captain's Lodge"! Goodbye Lost Coast,
you're too late now, sorry!

@Z: Divine Love Whispers

<em>Angelika:</em> 
Even after almost eight years in the USA, I am still fascinated by
how much the country's language reflects its culture. I am surprised
when the children in the Tenderloin shout a hearty "I love you" at
me, even though I know that these three words are used quite
liberally in American English. Americans, it seems, love everything
and everyone. In German, however, the declaration of love "Ich liebe
dich!" carries significant weight. It is used sparingly, as one can
fall back on the famous "Ich hab' dich lieb!" as a milder expression.

American politicians, on the other hand, find the phrase "God bless
America" great. No speech or interview ends without God's blessing,
and this has been the case long before Bush became president.
However, I had to smile when Germany's new Federal President, Horst
Köhler, drew on his American experience and invoked God's blessing
over Germany in his inaugural speech.

@Z: Election Campaign in America: Bush versus Kerry

Although the convention of the American Republican Party, during
which Bush's official nomination as the presidential candidate will
take place, is still pending, everyone already knows: Kerry is
running against Bush.

The sentence translates to: "America is known to have a rather
sophisticated electoral system, which appears extremely convoluted to
Europeans.
<RBLINK>20001204#1</RBLINK>
This process begins with the so-called primaries (internal party
elections). Between January and June of the election year, the
official candidate of each party is determined through primaries in
almost all American states.

This is done either through "open primaries" or "closed primaries."
The open variant allows any eligible voter to cast their vote for
their favored Republican or Democratic candidate, while in closed
primaries, the voter must be a registered member of the respective
party to participate in the party's internal primary election.

Then, in some states, such as Iowa, there is the alternative of
"caucuses." You should think of a "caucus" as events at a lower
political level where delegates are elected to support a specific
preferred candidate at various regional and national party
conventions.

Until the 1960s, there were only primary elections in 10 to 12
states, which were considered mere indicators of public opinion
before the national party conventions. The delegates had the final
say on the nomination of the presidential candidate. Nowadays,
everything is decided on "Super Tuesday" in March, when populous
states like California and New York hold their primaries. As a
result, the nomination at the national party conventions in the
summer is increasingly becoming a formality. For those aligned with
the Republican Party, there was no worry this year anyway, as Bush
had no opponent within his own party. Among the Democrats, Kerry
eventually won, although Howard Dean was initially considered the
favorite.

We have been in an election campaign conducted at tabloid level for
months now. It's enough to make you cry. Initially, there was no more
important question than who had the better head of hair: Kerry or
Bush. Then, some eager journalists, close to the tabloid press, began
to speculate whether Kerry was using Botox to smooth out his
wrinkles.

The wives of the two candidates are also preferred targets. Teresa
Heinz Kerry is considered too outspoken and generally suspicious by
the conservative press, as she is the millionaire heiress of the
Heinz ketchup empire. In contrast, Laura Bush deliberately plays the
role of the homemaker.

In the meantime, the smear campaign shifted to more political topics.
Since Bush boasts of being a war president who protects America from
terrorists with a firm hand, Kerry cannot lag behind. He needs to
prove that he can fulfill the role of Commander-in-Chief of the armed
forces as president. What better suits him than his Vietnam
experience? After all, Kerry returned from the war zone in the
seventies as a decorated soldier and had even volunteered. In
contrast, Bush served in the National Guard on American soil.

A plus for Kerry in gathering votes from Vietnam veterans. The
Americans have a thing with Vietnam anyway. The trauma still runs
deep in their bones. However, some cheeky former Vietnam comrades of
Kerry, who have given themselves the name "Swift Boat Veterans for
Truth," claim in a TV commercial that Kerry's heroic deeds are just
hot air. The New York Times then reported that the TV commercial was
co-financed by people close to the Bush family. So the country is
occupied with the truthfulness of old hero stories instead of
discussing current issues. Sigh!

But who will win the election? Michael always drives me crazy with
his gloomy predictions that Bush will emerge as the clear winner. I
believe the country is completely divided, and there will be a
neck-and-neck race in November with an extremely close election
outcome. Kerry is stumbling over the same obstacles as Gore. He wants
to please everyone, which makes him seem completely wishy-washy--a
trait that Americans do not like at all.

For many Democrats in San Francisco, however, Kerry is not left-wing
enough, although most here would vote for anyone as long as their
name isn't Bush. Everything depends on voter turnout, which in the
USA is typically only 50%. The Democrats are primarily trying to get
young voters to the polls, as the turnout in the 18 to 24-year-old
age group is abysmal. In the last election in 2000, it was a mere
36%.

In our neighborhood, young people from the "Democratic National
Committee" have been collecting money for weeks to go door-to-door in
the so-called "swing states" (states that sometimes vote Republican,
sometimes Democratic) to encourage their peers to vote.

The crucial question remains: Why do so many Americans still support
Bush? Even if one overlooks the foreign policy disaster in Iraq,
there is plenty to criticize domestically. The average American is
significantly worse off under Bush: they often have to deal with a
lower-paying job while facing astronomically rising healthcare costs
and a high personal debt burden. Nevertheless, many follow Bush like
the Pied Piper of Hamelin. Oh, sometimes this country just drives me
to despair.

@Z: Copy-Protected CDs

<em>Michael:</em> 
The translation of "Da habe ich in" to English is "There I have in".
<RBLINK>20031207#3</RBLINK>
I was boasting that American consumers would never put up with
copy-protected CDs, and bam! Reality slapped me with a wet towel: The
new CD from the "Guns 'n Roses" offshoot "Velvet Revolver" can't be
listened to as an MP3 on the computer, and consumers apparently don't
mind. What sheep! For "Velvet Revolver," this means they're out--at
least from my record shelf. For life!

@Z: The newsletter top product

<pic images/dolly.ps The newsletter top product: The high-end
handcart>

Moving boxes is no fun and can be hard on your back--unless, like us,
you've bought a handcart at the "Home Depot" hardware store. In
American English, these rolling helpers are also called "dollies,"
but when I asked the store clerk, "Where might I find a dolly?" he
responded with, "A what??" Maybe it was my pronunciation, but I had
to briefly describe that I wanted one of those things you can use to
cart stuff around. Ah, he understood and informed me that "hand
trucks" could be found in the last aisle on the shelf next to the
trash cans. I chose the top model for $39.99, which can handle up to
600 pounds. That's quality! It even withstood the heavy moving goods
and now stands on the balcony. Unfortunately, it can't be folded!

By the way, I always notice in the hardware store how limited my
English skills still are, even after eight years in America. Quick
test before you laugh: plane? file? regular screwdriver? Phillips
screwdriver? See, you don't know either.

The translation of the text is: "'Plane', 'File', 'Flat head',
'Phillips' are the answers. The name for the cross-head screwdriver,
which sounds quite strange to European ears, is actually derived from
the name of its inventor.
<LINK>http://ask.yahoo.com/ask/20021107.html|Henry F. Phillips is a
proper noun, specifically a name, and does not require translation
into English. It is already in its English form.</LINK>
The translation to English is: "derived, which led him to patent it
in the year 1936.

Recently, I was standing in the hardware store around the corner and
wanted to buy a dustpan with a broom, but when I tried to find the
word, all that came out was a slow "uhhhh...". Angelika, on the other
hand, impressed with the correct term "dustpan," which she had
learned in kindergarten, while such things are less common at AOL.

Greetings from the new place:

The translation of "Angelika und Michael" to English is "Angelika and
Michael.

