
San Francisco, 11-29-2004

@Z: South City, Don't Tell Anything

<em>Michael</em> 
On the morning train ride to Silicon Valley, I recently decided
to stare out the window for a change and noticed that the sun was
beautifully illuminating the industrial area of South San Francisco.
I quickly grabbed my digital camera, which I always have with me,
from my backpack and started taking pictures.

<pic images/southcity1.ps Graffiti on the railway line, South San Francisco>

The mix of unadorned industry and graffiti has always fascinated me,
as is well known. I fondly remember my first visit to New York City
in the mid-eighties when I got my hands on this book about subway
graffiti that never let me go. That was always my dream of America.

<pic images/southcity2.ps Freight Company, South San Francisco>

South San Francisco is mainly home to people who cannot afford the rents in the
city. Anyone who reads Bukowski's "Post Office" can imagine what
it means to work in low-wage jobs in slaughterhouses and shipping
companies in South City.

<pic images/southcity3.ps Industrial Plant, South San Francisco.>

But the American Dream is alive here just like everywhere else: The
predominantly Asian residents work tirelessly to send their children
to good schools and perhaps one day move to a better neighborhood.

"South City, Don't Tell Anything" is, of course, a title by the band BAP from
Cologne, who once played in the small Barbara Hall in Augsburg in
1984 in front of about 400 people. And even today, I still enjoy
listening to Mr. Niedecken's compositions. Although they no longer
blow me away musically, according to my theory, the lyrics in German
are so powerful that they make up 80% of a song. Ah, and when their album
"Amerika" is playing, we get quite sentimental as we look at the
skyline of San Francisco from our place.

<pic images/southcity5.ps Junkyard, South San Francisco">

@Z: Refusing to Obey

<em>Michael</em> 
I've already mentioned previously that Americans do not like to
adhere to arbitrary rules. As a typical example, I always mention the
white lines painted on the baseball field, which designate rectangles
about two by five meters in size for the coaching areas. Every,
and I really mean every single coach can been found at least one meter outside
the box. If I were a baseball official, I would take strong action!

<pic images/bbf.ps Baseball coaches are blatantly standing outside the permitted area.>

However, this does not mean that there is a lack of bureaucracy: In
institutions like the Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV), the
Internal Revenue Service (IRS), and the Immigration and
Naturalization Service (INS), red tape is rampant, worse, yes worse
than in Germany. Many Germans do not realize this, assuming that
everything in America is more efficient and less bureaucratic.

A similar rule applies to time arrangements. If you show up to a
casual party at the agreed time, you'll be greeted by people with
curlers in their hair, looking at you in confusion. Naturally, the
food isn't ready yet, and everything is terribly awkward. So: Always
arrive an hour late. Oh, and if you confirmed your attendance a week
in advance but don't call the day before to reconfirm, no one will
expect you to show up. If you then actually arrive as promised
without reconfirming, there won't be any beer in the fridge.

When AOL bought Netscape in 2000 and our workforce moved onto the campus, two
worlds collided: At Netscape, it was common to arrive 15 minutes late
to meetings. Sometimes it happened that I was sitting alone in the
meeting room, discussing everything with the counterparts in Dulles
over the phone and sometimes even finishing the conversation by the
time the first Netscape people trickled in. Naturally, I made a point
of jokingly saying, "Everything's already done, meeting over," and
marching back to my cubicle. However, it didn't help much.

@Z: How to Change Jobs

<em>Michael</em> 
After seven years at AOL, I thought to myself: If I don't quit now,
I'll have to stay at the company until retirement. Now, the selection
of successful companies in Silicon Valley is quite large, and the job
market is on the verge of booming again. It so happened that the
company Yahoo! (correct, with an exclamation mark!) conducted a phone
interview with me, showed interest, and then invited me for an
in-person interview. Everything went smoothly there; they were
familiar with my Perl modules from the internet, and the team and
manager there made a very competent impression on me. In short, we
reached an agreement, and shortly thereafter, I signed the contract.

How do you resign from an American company? Some people jokingly
claim that I stayed at AOL for so long because I couldn't find the
resignation form, but that's obviously not true. You simply tell your
manager, "I'll be here for only two more weeks." This is called
giving 'notice,' and to be on the safe side, you also send an email
to the HR department with the following wording:

"The purpose of this email is to inform you of my resignation from my
current position as [position] at [company]. My last day of work will
be [mm/dd/yyyy]. I have accepted another position."

That's it, two weeks later, you're gone! Of course, there was still a
lot to organize: projects had to be handed over, a "brain dump"
had to be conducted for the colleagues, and all sorts of office tasks
had to be completed. But, believe it or not, it somehow worked out. It
wasn't easy, of course, after such a long time, but at some point,
you have to draw the line.

When applying at a company in the USA, it is easiest if you know
someone who already works there. Due to the massive layoffs at AOL in
recent years, former AOL employees are now everywhere in Silicon
Valley: At eBay, PayPal, Yahoo!, Amazon, Google, Adobe, and many
smaller companies, you can currently apply quite easily if you have
maintained your contacts well over the years. In some cases, real
friendships have developed, and we still meet at fairly regular
intervals. This is actually quite unusual in America, where work
contacts are very superficial and it's rare to find people who at
least go to the pub together in the evening. But we former AOL
employees have gone through thick and thin together, which created a
strong bond.

Diplomas and work certificates are much less valued in America than
in Germany. Of course, for a software developer job, you do need at
least a diploma (Bachelor's or Master's) in computer science or
another technical field. However, the details are unimportant; what
matters is the work experience and the personal impression the
candidate makes.

For this reason, one should never include a certificate with a cover
letter. Nor should you include a passport photo or date of birth, in
order to prevent age and racial discrimination. Instead, you send a
"resume" as in
<LINK>http://perlmeister.com/resume.html|perlmeister.com/resume.html</LINK>
and then prepare for a phone call that typically goes on for an hour and
is conducted by the hiring manager, who assesses the candidate's
skills. If that goes well, the candidate is invited for an onsite interview
and speaks with about 4-5 people in the first round, each for
approximately 30-45 minutes. Further rounds may follow (I've heard
that at Google, some folks went troug more than five).

There are strict regulations regarding what the interviewer is
allowed to ask in a job interview and what is not permitted.
Questions about age, religion, marital status, or country of origin
are not allowed. Only "Are you authorized to work legally in the
USA?" is permitted.

The easiest way to succeed with an application is if someone who
already works there gives a recommendation. In America, personal
references are highly valued. Many companies pay $1,000, $2,000, and
even more if an employee suggests a candidate who is then hired.

On the application, you also provide about three "references," people
who will put in a good word for you. And believe it or not, the
hiring managers usually do call these people and ask if they think
the candidate is any good.

Shortly before signing the contract, the company then hires a
specialist for background checks, who does not verify the
authenticity of a diploma certificate, but simply calls the
university to ask if the candidate actually studied there. He also
calls the listed previous employers to check if the candidate really
worked there.

@Z: Yahoo!

<pic images/y3.ps A building of the Yahoo! headquarters in Sunnyvale>

I had already heard rumors about Yahoo!, but what I learned on the
first day really blew me away. It felt like it was suddenly 1996
again, with the internet boom at its peak.

When signing the contract, I already noticed that the HR (Human
Resources) people were all completely unconventional. Outwardly, they
were the exact opposite of a typical German HR manager, almost
hippie-like, but totally sharp and professional. In general, you see
this type more often these days in top companies in the Valley: old
hippies, people who probably weren't the best in school, but then
turned things around and made it big.

In general, the level at Yahoo! is quite a bit higher than at AOL;
there are high-caliber people around, it's hard to believe: At my
first lunch in the cafeteria, I was introduced to a "Jeremy" along
with a dozen other people, and I didn't think much of it until I
found out the next day that it was the MySQL guru and author Jeremy
Zawodny. Amazing! And also PHP creator Rasmus Lerdorf, a Dane with a
Canadian passport, works in our group and regularly joins us for
lunch! By the way, someone signals it's time to eat by playing a
specific melody on an accordion.

<pic images/y2.ps Part of the Yahoo! campus in Sunnyvale>

In the introductory class, we were encouraged not to hold back and to
assertively push through our ideas. And when, the first few times in
the new group, I still asked, "Can we do it this way?" and the answer
was always "Yes, of course!" I was truly overwhelmed. Those who know
me are aware that sometimes rather unorthodox methods might be used.

Working for Yahoo! instead of AOL has the added advantage that I am
no longer associated with questionable business practices, such as
the mass distribution of CDs. Moreover, Yahoo! enjoys the complete
trust of many people; in fact, people genuinely love Yahoo!

Once I missed the delivery driver at home, so I called the UPS parcel
service to have the package delivered not in San Francisco, but at
work in Sunnyvale, 50 kilometers away (yes, that's possible in
America!). When I gave the new address and mentioned "Yahoo!", the
lady on the phone exclaimed happily: "Yahoo! I love it! I'm using it
all the time!". I was quite touched by that.

And the gatekeeper at the rocket company Lockheed Martin, through
whose premises I am allowed to ride my bike with special permission
(much safer than riding along the freeway exits in Silicon Valley),
recently called out to me laughing, after I showed my badge:
"Yahoooooo!".

The word, by the way, describes the sound that a yodeler makes. A few
years ago at Yahoo!, the world record for mass yodeling (with a
Guinness Book entry) was set when all the employees gathered in the
cafeteria and made yodel-like sounds together.

<pic images/y4.ps The Yahoo! campus with a basketball court.>

The company's policy is aimed at providing employees with an
environment where they can freely work on crazy ideas. The people are
highly motivated, and there are intense discussions on email lists
about how to improve the Yahoo! service. In cases of mental and
physical exhaustion, there are quiet rooms where one can take a nap.

Additionally, a fitness center, basketball courts, and beach
volleyball courts with sand are available. For coffee needs, there is
a cafe where baristas (that's what the coffee makers at Starbucks
are called) can whip up lattes, espressos, or hot or cold chai for
you. And the best part is, it doesn't cost a cent; you just go there
with your cup!

If you don't have time to do laundry at home, you can drop off your
clothes, which will then be sent to a laundry service for a small
fee. The clothes are promptly returned clean and nicely ironed. Once
a week, a mobile hairdresser comes to the campus in a bus-like
vehicle to cut hair. There's even a mobile dental service that comes
once a week if you don't have time to visit a regular dentist.
However, I've been skeptical about that so far and will probably
continue to visit a conventional dentist.

Oh, and there's something funny to add to my "background check": The
specialist actually called my previous employers and even the
office at my old university! And even the police in Munich,
who confirmed that I was a posterchild citizen. And also my credit
report (<RBLINK>20040518#4</RBLINK>)
was obtained to see if my finances are in order. I know all this
because I (you can check this box if you agree to the background
check) received a copy of the report. It detailed that they kept
calling the office at TU Munich forever and no one picked
up, hilarious!

@Z: Newsletter Top Product: Duraflame Logs

<pic images/dura.ps The Duraflame log as a firewood substitute>

With our new open fireplace in the apartment, the question of
firewood procurement arises. If you don't live in the woods but in
a big city, it's not so easy to acquire and store enough wood! For
big city fireplace enthusiasts, there are "Logs" by a companty called Duraflame,
which you simply light up on the paper wrapper. They burn
continuously for four (!) hours, creating a nice, clean fire!
Naturally, they are bought at Costco in a pack of nine.

Clear the way for Angelika!

@Z: Red versus Blue: The Election Outcome in America

<pic images/bush.ps Campaign poster for Bush and Cheney>

<em>Angelika</em> 
On the night of the election on November 2nd, we watched the US
map intently, hoping that the state of Ohio would turn blue and go to
presidential candidate Kerry, after Florida was already flashing at
us in ominous red.

Because the color red represents the Republican Party and Bush, while
blue represents the Democrat Kerry. How fitting, since the
strongholds of the Democratic Party are by the water: the coasts of
the West and upper East Coast, the areas around the Great Lakes, and
let's not forget Hawaii. But the dream is over: we have to endure
Bush for four more years with gritted teeth. Sigh!!! Although Bush
did not win by a landslide as Michael had gloomily predicted, he not
only secured the necessary electoral votes this time but also
garnered 3.5 million more popular votes than Kerry.

Even the fact that nearly 85% of people in deep-blue San Francisco
voted for Kerry is of little comfort. Scholars are debating why Bush
won. The debate over moral values is highly popular. The born-again
Christian Bush gathers his flock in the heartland by rallying against
abortion and same-sex marriage. In this context, it no longer matters
that these followers are digging their own economic graves by voting
for a president who favors the wealthy and large corporations and
would prefer to crown himself emperor. To be fair, it should be
mentioned that the mechanical coloring of the American map leads to
gross oversimplifications. For example, Nevada went to Bush and is
therefore colored red, but the election outcome was extremely close:
51 percent voted for Bush, 49 percent for Kerry. Similar situations
can be found in other states. Purple would be a better color in many
cases.

How tragic it is that Bush now has the upper hand, as the Republican
Party has also expanded its majority in both houses of parliament. I
think with horror about the upcoming nominations to the Supreme Court
under Bush, as the judges are appointed for life and shape the legal
landscape for decades.

@Z: Please Smile: Entry Into the USA

Since September 30, German citizens have been greeted at US
immigration counters with: "Smile, you're on Camera!" This is because a
digital photo is taken of every traveler from Germany, even if they
are not subject to the American visa requirement. Additionally, both
index fingers must be scanned for fingerprints. Since the end of
October, every German tourist also needs a machine-readable passport
for visa-free entry. This applies to babies and children as well as
adults. Americans are strict about this!

@Z: The American Health Insurance System

<pic images/kaiser5.ps The Kaiser Permanente Hospital in San Francisco>

Every time we sit down with American friends, the topic of the dismal
American healthcare system inevitably comes up. The better-informed
Americans know and envy the fact that almost all European countries
have a single payer health insurance system for everyone. Michael
immediately rolls his eyes, knowing that I could discuss this
tiresome topic for hours.

Even after almost eight years, I still haven't gotten used to the
pitfalls of the American healthcare system. Until now, I was firmly
convinced that it would never come to the point in Germany where the
American system, which is outrageously expensive and simply a
disaster, would be adopted. However, when I look at developments in
Germany, such as the in person visit copay, online pharmacies, and dental
services, I'm not so sure anymore.

Michael and I always joke that if we ever return to Germany, we won't need to
make a big adjustment. Don't get me wrong: of course Germany needs reforms, but
I don't quite understand why people look to America in this regard, whose
system has been up against the wall for decades. Why not look to Scandinavia?
I'm very much in favor of mandating for anyone in the German health ministry
proposing changes based on the American model, that they visit an American
doctor and an American hospital at least once beforehand. Naturally, this would
include dealing with the American health insurance system. They would never
spout such nonsense again.

We have repeatedly pointed it out to you: There are millions of
working Americans who have no health insurance or are not adequately
insured. Currently, 45 million (or 15.6% of the American population)
have no health insurance--a record-breaking number.

This army of uninsured people has always existed. However, the recent increase
is primarily due to the aftermath of the economic downturn, which is only
slowly subsiding. In the U.S., losing your job also means losing your
employer-provided health insurance. Although employees can choose to continue
paying for their health insurance voluntarily, which I will explain in more
detail later, it is expensive and unaffordable for many who no longer have a
steady income. Even if you receive unemployment benefits--yes, those exist in
the USA as well--you are not automatically covered by health insurance.

Secondly, the number of Americans without health insurance is
increasing because insurance premiums have skyrocketed in recent
years. Many small and medium-sized businesses can no longer afford
this "luxury" and no longer offer health insurance to their
employees. Other companies are increasingly passing on the rising
costs to their employees, which leads to higher monthly contributions
and greater out-of-pocket expenses for them. The problem with the
U.S. system, however, is that companies (except in Hawaii) are
completely free to decide whether and under what conditions they
offer health insurance to their employees.

TODO

This is how it happens that companies cover the costs for health
insurance entirely, partially, or not at all. Yahoo!, for example,
has been financing everything for both of us up to now. Starting in
2005, Michael and I will pay $20 a month together, and Yahoo! will
sponsor the rest of the premium. For comparison, our monthly
contribution at AOL was $180. At Yahoo!, we can choose between two
health insurance companies, and with one of the companies, we can
choose from three different plans that differ in terms of
co-payments, deductibles, choice of doctors, etc.

In principle, the better the company, the better the options and
conditions. Since companies decide which health insurance and models
they choose, changing jobs usually means that the employee has to
switch health insurance, which can result in the doctor they used to
visit no longer being affiliated with the new health insurance. This
is unlike in Germany, where the employee decides which health
insurance they want to be in and retains it even when they change
jobs.

<pic images/mac.ps McDonald's employees do not have health insurance,
and hotel employees often do not either.>

By the way, on November 2, Californians once again voted on several
propositions. Proposition 72 aimed to require companies in California
to offer health insurance starting at 50 employees and to pay 80% of
the premium starting at 200 employees. Unfortunately, Mr. and Mrs.
Californian were lulled by Arnie, who railed against the proposition,
and they voted against it. How stupid can you be! Hawaii is the only
state that has had a similar law to the proposed Proposition 72 since
1974. No wonder we like it so much there.

Why is it, then, that healthcare costs are exploding in America? As
in other industrialized nations, people are living longer and
high-tech medicine is continually improving, leading to new and
expensive treatment methods.

Then there's the fact that, as is well known, Americans like to go to
court. Doctors here fear nothing more than overlooking something and
getting hit with a lawsuit for damages. That's why they take out
expensive insurance policies. Naturally, the money has to be recouped
from somewhere.

I also think that the fear of making mistakes is associated with
doctors here strictly following a set pattern. If the patient
complains about certain symptoms, then this and that must absolutely
be done. The automatic reach for the prescription pad also always
makes me quite annoyed. It's as if the motto is: The patient is only
happy if I prescribe them a pill. Antibiotics are still considered a
cure-all here.

Of course, the insured pay for the uninsured as well. Even in
America, the medical profession swears the Hippocratic Oath and does
not let anyone bleed to death or die. The so-called "Emergency Rooms"
(comparable to the emergency admissions in German hospitals) are
obligated to treat anyone who "arrives with their head under their
arm.

Many uninsured individuals go to the emergency rooms with
non-life-threatening conditions because they don't know where else to
go, which, of course, ends up being more expensive for the public
than a doctor's visit in a practice. Naturally, even patients without
insurance are billed. However, where there is nothing, nothing can be
collected. Therefore, the bills for the insured are slightly
increased to compensate for the loss.

The county hospitals (community hospitals), i.e., public hospitals,
also do not turn away anyone who does not have health insurance. In
San Francisco, the "General Hospital" falls under this category. The
hospital administration then negotiates with the patient regarding
what they can pay by having the patient disclose their income and
financial situation.

The last significant reason for the explosion in costs is the bloated
administrative apparatus of the various health insurance companies.
Since there are numerous different plans, all of which vary in terms
of services and patient co-payments, a large number of people are
needed to oversee them. When you make an appointment with a doctor,
the receptionist not only asks which health insurance you have but
also which plan of the mentioned insurance it is, even though they
themselves are not familiar with it, despite dealing with it every
day. Another popular question quickly follows: "And don't you need to
see your primary care physician first to get a referral to a
specialist?" Aaaahhhhh!!!!

So it remains an unsolvable task to explain all health insurance
plans. But I will try to tackle the main models. There once was the
following simple model: The patient goes to the doctor or hospital of
their choice, and the health insurance pays the rate charged by the
doctor or hospital, minus a deductible that the patient covers. Those
were the days.

Today, health insurance companies want to save costs and have more
say, which has led to what is known as "Managed Care." Its most
important principle is that the respective health insurance company
negotiates fixed fee rates with doctors and hospitals, and the
patient is generally only allowed to go to these contracted doctors
and hospitals. On the statements that the patient receives from their
health insurance, you can see the price difference. For example, my
internist charged $170 for a visit with a vaccination booster.
However, he only received $116 because that was the agreed rate.
Additionally, certain - usually more expensive - treatment methods,
such as surgeries, must be approved by the health insurance company.
And that's where the problem lies, because the health insurance
company is not independent. After all, it wants to make a profit.

With the "Preferred Provider Organizations (PPO)" model, which we
currently have, I can, in principle, visit any doctor. However, I
save a lot of money if I go to a doctor who is contracted with my
health insurance. Generally, doctors and hospitals enter into
contracts with various health insurance companies. But how do I know
if my doctor is part of the network? The major health insurance
companies have an online directory of doctors and hospitals that you
can query. This can also be done by phone, but it usually takes more
time because you have to navigate through an annoying phone menu
first.

Even if I choose a contracted doctor, a practice fee (called
"co-payment" in America) is due at each doctor's visit, unlike in
Germany where it is once per quarter. We currently pay $15 (varies
from insurance company to insurance company) per visit. Additionally,
there is an annual deductible, which in our case is $250 per person,
and it becomes due when we need X-rays, surgeries, and the like.
After meeting the deductible, our insurance covers 90% in these
cases. We pay 10%. Paying 10% of $1,000 is manageable, but 10% of
$100,000 is not so easy, which is why the plan limits how much we
have to pay out of pocket per year ("out-of-pocket maximum"): $1,250
per person in our case. However, the practice fee does not count
towards this.

To illustrate, here's a small example. Let's assume someone gets sick
and the hospital bill amounts to a total of $10,000. With the Yahoo!
plan we have, we pay a $250 deductible, leaving $9,750. 10%
co-insurance of that is $975, so we would have to pay $250 + $975 =
$1,225 ourselves, as the maximum ($1,250) has not yet been reached.

The "Point of Service (POS)" model, on the other hand, incorporates
the family doctor as a coordinator, meaning the patient commits to
always visiting their family doctor first, who will refer them to
specialists, whether affiliated with the health insurance or not, if
necessary. Here too, the patient incurs lower costs if the family
doctor refers them to experts who are contracted with their own
health insurance ("in network"). To my knowledge, the family doctor
model is also making a comeback in Germany. The idea is that the
family doctor holds the reins, knows their patient, and thus prevents
unnecessary specialist examinations.

In the third variant, the "Health Maintenance Organizations (HMO),"
the patient is only allowed to visit contracted doctors or hospitals;
otherwise, the health insurance does not pay. Here too, the family
doctor usually coordinates the upcoming treatments. In its purest
form, the HMO even goes so far as the health insurance owning its own
hospitals and the doctors being employees of the health insurance, as
is the case with Kaiser Permanente. Everything is under one roof. If
the patient needs a specialist or lab tests, they are referred
internally. Although the choice of doctor is limited, the insurance
covers 100% of all costs after a small co-payment. Many patients love
this model because it is quite simple in terms of billing.

Another model, the "Self-Insured Health Plans," is becoming
increasingly popular, especially among larger companies. The company
pays money into its own fund and covers the costs for its employees
in case of illness.

The latest trend is the so-called "Health Funds," which various
health insurances offer in conjunction with employers. The company
pays the health insurance a certain amount per year for the
respective employee, which the employee uses for incurred costs in
case of illness. If they do not use up the fund, the money is carried
over to the new year. Once the annual sum is spent, the employee
initially pays a higher deductible before the regular insurance
covers further costs. The idea behind this is: The patient acts as
their own health manager, deciding when and for what they spend money
at the doctor or pharmacy. We could also choose this plan starting in
2005: Yahoo! would pay $1125 into the fund for both of us. The annual
deductible would be $750 for the two of us after the money is used
up.

In America, employees decide again at the end of each year which
health insurance model they will choose for the coming year. This is
also because something always changes. It should be mentioned in
passing that dental or eye doctor and glasses insurances are usually
separate from the health insurance.

But what does the poor soul do who loses their job and thus their
health insurance? The COBRA law (= Consolidated Omnibus Budget
Reconciliation Act) comes to the rescue in the USA. The law states
that the employee can voluntarily remain insured in the company group
insurance for 18 months if they leave the company (even if they
resign themselves), as long as the company insurance covers 20 or
more employees. However, they then pay the premium out of their own
pocket. AOL's health insurance (without dental and glasses insurance)
would have cost us both $643 monthly under COBRA.

Completing COBRA is not only sensible to be covered in case of
illness, but also to avoid a gap in insurance coverage, for example,
if you take a creative break between two jobs. This protects you from
being burdened with so-called "pre-existing conditions."
"Pre-existing conditions" include all illnesses that were diagnosed
or treated six months before joining a new health insurance plan,
which can result in no treatment being paid for these illnesses for
the first 6-12 months.

<pic images/walgreens.ps Pharmacy integrated into a drugstore:
Walgreens>

The pharmacies located in supermarket chains like "Safeway" or
drugstores like "Walgreens" and "Rite Aid" surprised me on my first
trip to America. Traditional pharmacies, as they are known in
Germany, are now on the verge of extinction in America.

Every tourist is amazed by the 100-tablet pack of aspirin on the
supermarket shelf, which the customer can even get at a very
reasonable price. However, I boldly claim that the stuff is not as
strong as in Germany, because the headache sufferer usually has to
swallow two tablets for it to work. Prescription medications have
completely astronomical prices in America.

The pharmaceutical industry takes advantage of the living with the
argument that the high profits are used to develop and test new
medications. Oh, really! How important it is, then, that one's health
insurance covers prescription medications. To save money, health
insurance usually requires the doctor to prescribe so-called
"generics" whenever available. This simply means that the patient
does not purchase the medication under the original brand name of the
manufacturing company, but rather a non-branded product that contains
the same chemical ingredients but costs only a fraction.

<pic images/generics.ps (#1) Generics" are non-name brand medications
that can be refilled.>

The drugstore chain "Walgreens" dispenses these "generics" in
"stylish" orange plastic containers (see Figure (#1)). No original
packaging or anything of that luxury. You will also search in vain
for the classic, neatly folded package insert. However, Walgreens
does include a similar, self-made leaflet that describes the
composition of the medication, how to take it, what side effects it
may cause, and how much the insurance paid for the medication.

A prescription fee also needs to be paid. The amount varies depending
on the health insurance provider and the specific plan you have
chosen. With our new health insurance, Aetna, we pay 5 dollars out of
pocket for generics and 15 dollars for brand-name drugs, which we
only receive if there is no corresponding generic available.

I find the option of "refill" (refilling) quite practical and
consumer-friendly. The doctor then writes on the prescription how
many times a patient can refill the medication without having to
present a new prescription. This saves annoying doctor visits just
because the medication you take regularly is running low. 

Finally, I can't help but make a few critical remarks. I am shocked
every time by how the doctor's offices look here compared to those in
Germany. There's nothing like stylish furniture and tasteful waiting
rooms. The treatment rooms are often tiny spaces where only the
doctor and the patient can fit--scratched and dented medical cabinets
are not uncommon. I admit that a designer desk or the size of the
waiting room doesn't say anything about the quality of the treatment.
But the height of tastelessness is represented by the fabric or paper
gowns that look like hospital nightgowns, which the patient puts on
so they don't have to face the doctor completely naked. Long live
American prudery. I'm sure I've already been labeled as a difficult
patient by some American doctors: "Oh, here she comes again, the one
who doesn't want antibiotics and hates the 'modesty gown.'

@Z: The record of the month

<em>Michael</em> 
Man, there's a lot of complaining today! To calm everyone down, we'll
put on a record with some feel-good music. Lalalala ...

<pic images/smile.ps Smile," the new album by Beach Boys' uncle Brian
Wilson>

What do Manfred Deix (the Austrian illustrator) and I have in common?
We are both outspoken fans of the Californian group "The Beach Boys".
Yes, now it's out! I am a Beach Boys fan! I don't care!

The common opinion is that the Beach Boys only produced trivial
music. However, I claim that the Beach Boys are one of the most
brilliant bands of all time. Behind all the
summer-sun-fast-cars/girls facade is the genius mind of Brian Wilson,
who not only composed catchy tunes but also complex melodies that no
one else could come up with.

The man wavers between genius and madness. The album "Pet Sounds"
from 1966 is just on the edge of that. All aspiring psychiatrists
should listen to it. After that, the good Brian occasionally drifted
off completely. I once saw a documentary that reported he simply
didn't get out of bed for months(!). At times, reporters would come
to his bed, and Brian Wilson would give interviews while lying
comfortably. By the way, it was a very nice and comfortable bed; I
remember nodding in agreement while watching the documentary.

I even once bought the so-called "The Pet Sounds Sessions" double CD
for a fortune, which features around 60 ancient studio recordings.
Sometimes a song is played for 10 seconds, someone messes up, and
everyone laughs and stops.

In any case, after decades of inactivity, Brian Wilson has finally
released a definitive album: "Smile." A masterpiece. You have to
listen to it about ten times to catch all the nuances, and then
you'll be captivated. Getting up was worth it.

Greetings from bed

The translation of "Michael und Angelika" to English is "Michael and
Angelika.

