San Francisco, 07-01-2005

@Z: Visiting Vancouver, Canada

<pic images/van1.ps Vancouver: Modern Canada. Harbor in front of skyscrapers>

<em>Angelika:</em> 
For a long time, we wanted to pay a visit to our Canadian neighbors
in the far north. In April, it finally happened. We boarded a plane
and headed to Vancouver, Canada, as so many people had praised this
city to the skies. Canada is often lumped together with the USA,
which understandably annoys Canadians. It's true that many things are
similar: for example, we were surprised that the English in Vancouver
sounded just like it does in California--our ears couldn't detect a
Canadian accent.

The tipping customs are also interchangeable. When you go out to eat,
the guest patiently waits for the hostess to lead them to their
table. The bad habit of not including taxes in the final price is
something Canadians are familiar with as well. There are two
different sales taxes: the federal one and the one for the respective
Canadian province. If you drink alcohol in a restaurant, a dubious
alcohol tax is added. Taxi drivers groan about the high taxes just
like everywhere else in the world, and the obligatory American
coffeehouse chain "Starbucks" can be found on every corner. On the
other hand, Canadians have achievements like a national health
insurance for everyone, and Vancouver offers a public transportation
system that reliably runs on schedule. Upon arrival, we immediately
noticed that Vancouver is much cleaner and less "run-down" than
American cities of comparable size.

<pic images/van2.ps Vancouver: Indiginous sculpture in the Anthropology Museum>

Despite these friendly conditions, we couldn't avoid the Canadian
border control upon entry. Before the terrorist attacks in America,
it was apparently quite easy for American citizens or Green Card
holders to enter Canada. But those days are gone. So, we dutifully
presented our German passports and American Green Cards. Otherwise,
we behaved as if we had never stood before an officer of any
immigration authority. When we were asked what brought us to Canada,
we both initially remained stubbornly silent, only to start speaking
at the same time, which immediately made the officer behind the
counter suspicious, suspecting that we hadn't coordinated our
stories. However, we quickly convinced her that we only wanted to
enter Canadian soil for purely touristic purposes.

On the return trip, we immediately stumbled upon another
"immigration trap." Right at the check-in counter for Alaska Airlines
at the Vancouver airport, we noticed that there was no conveyor belt
for our luggage next to or behind the counter. "Strange!" I thought
to myself. And then the friendly lady, while handing us our boarding
passes, asked us to step behind the counter with our luggage, exactly
where the luggage usually disappears. There were no further
explanations. So, we strolled down a corridor with our luggage until
we stood in front of the duty-free shop, where another lady in
uniform was standing, asking for our American customs declaration.

This completely confused us, because you usually fill these out at
the earliest on the flight, since after all, we were still in Canada.
She then pointed to small desks with the forms and instructed us to
return to her with the completed form. Said and done. After she had
examined the customs declaration, we were allowed to trudge through
the duty-free shop with the customs declaration and our luggage and
suddenly found ourselves in front of the counters of the American
immigration authorities. At first, we thought we were in the wrong
movie. Just to remind you: We were still in the Vancouver airport.
But no! We were, so to speak, already entering the USA
again in Vancouver. Behind the immigration counters, they finally
took care of our luggage. In San Francisco, we thus saved ourselves
the passport control and landed directly at the terminal for American
domestic flights.

<pic images/van3.ps Vancouver: Even more apartment buildings>

Otherwise, we were surprised by how hyper-modern Vancouver is.
Everywhere, architecturally sophisticated skyscrapers tower into the
sky, and construction is happening at a rapid pace. Vancouver, as we
were repeatedly told, is booming, and everyone wants to live here.
However, we missed a bit of the old and cozy charm. There is a
tourist-oriented "Old Town" and also a Chinatown in Vancouver, but it
doesn't quite compare to San Francisco's Chinatown. For us, the
city's appeal lay in its natural beauty: surrounded by water, with
mountains as a backdrop, and a huge park, Stanley Park, right in the
center of the city. We particularly enjoyed cruising around on the
water with the small ferries that operate like taxis, taking you from
one point to another. And we had to admit without envy that Vancouver
can certainly compete with San Francisco in terms of culinary
offerings. The restaurants we visited were diverse and excellent.

<pic images/faehre.ps The cute little "Aquabus" ferry>

@Z: Colorful life

<pic images/cc.ps (#1) Politically correct advertising>

<em>Michael:</em> 
When a corporation advertises in a city like San Francisco, it must
be careful to treat all population groups equally. In this diverse
city, 44% of the population is White, 31% Asian, 14% Latino, and 8%
Black (source: <LINK>http://www.sfgov.org/site/uploadedfiles/mocd/demoprofile.pdf|sfgov.org</LINK>), it would be unrealistic to show only white models on an
advertisement for underwear, for example. In illustration (#1), you
can see that the cover of a coupon booklet that arrived in the mail
represents pretty much all the significant population groups: The
cuddling couple on the left is black, the man with the foaming
toothbrush is white, the grandpa with the bicycle is white and old,
the mom in white in the middle is obviously working (due to the white
clothing, obviously a doctor), the lady with the baby in the middle
right is Asian, and the beaming family at the bottom left are
Latinos. The sports catalog in illustration (#3) also reflects all
the significant population groups.

<pic images/katalog.ps (#3) Politically Correct Catalog>

When you start working at a company, you fill out a form where you
indicate your "ethnicity." This is not for the purpose of
discrimination, but rather -- on the contrary -- to provide companies
with statistics on how "diverse" (i.e., mixed) their workforce is.
Companies that hire too few minorities or, for example, have only
white people in leadership positions are frowned upon. On the form
for ethnicity, as a white person, you have to enter "Caucasian." I
didn't know this at my first job in America, but the friendly lady in
the HR department discreetly helped me with it back then.

@Z: Record of the Month

<pic images/kraft.ps Maximum Minimum" - The live album by Kraftwerk>

About the concert of the group Kraftwerk at the Warfield Theater in
San Francisco last year, I had briefly reported in <RBLINK>20040518#6</RBLINK>.
Recently, the double CD "Maximum-Minimum" was released, featuring
recordings from various stops on the tour. Let me tell you, when I
heard it for the first time, I was at work at Yahoo! listening
with headphones, and during the first song "Mensch-Maschine," I
got a pleasant chill down my arms, and my cubicle colleagues must
have wondered why I suddenly started breathing so heavily. Man, it
brought back memories of that fantastic concert. Highly recommended!

@Z: "Don't call it Frisco"

<pic images/wash.ps The laundromat "Don't Call it Frisco">

<em>Angelika:</em> 
People are known to like abbreviating or shortening long terms. The
name of our city "San Francisco" is a particularly popular target for this: you
often hear it referred to as S.F., San Fran, or Frisco.

Until now, it was considered taboo among the locals of this city to
call San Francisco "Frisco." Doing so would immediately mark you as a
tourist. It was simply referred to as "the City." This was taken so
seriously that there is even a laundromat named "Don't call it
Frisco" on Hayes Street.

For quite some time, the term "Frisco" has been appearing in rap
songs, and rather trendy T-shirts with the "Frisco" logo are growing
in popularity. And I'm not talking about T-shirts that you can buy in
cheap stores in Chinatown or the tourist trap hub "Fisherman's Wharf."

<pic images/frisco.ps A T-shirt with a Frisco graffiti print>

Quite the opposite, stores where the young and cool--think daring
skateboarders, laid-back surfers, or graffiti artists--shop, are
selling them. The term "Frisco" has undoubtedly made a comeback as a
counter-movement to the establishment. Therefore, I wouldn't exactly
advise those in their 30s (and older) to walk around wearing these
T-shirts. Even Michael, who is known to prefer the casual Californian
shorts and sneakers look with loose T-shirts, doesn't dare to wear
them.

@Z: Cars in California

<pic images/welded.ps Host Xzibit in the show "Pimp My Ride" with a car welded together from two halves, with its windshield held in place by tar.>

<em>Michael:</em> 
In the USA, there is no TÜV (the German Technical Car Inspection Association). You
can really drive around in the most rusted-out junk car. As long as
the fenders don't fly off on the highway, it's okay. The TV show
"Pimp My Ride" with host Xzibit, which is also a big success in
Germany, shows how to turn a falling-apart car into a good-looking
ride.

In America, the condition of parked cars plays an important role in
assessing a neighborhood. If there are only rusty old wrecks, it's
better not to be there after nightfall.

It can certainly happen that someone who is selling their house asks
that you don't park your junk car right in front of it. That lowers
the price of the house. Our beloved PERLMAN has already driven house
prices down and left real estate agents in despair.

Once a year in California, however, a notice from the Department of Motor
Vehicles (DMV) arrives in the mail, requesting payment of the annual
registration fee and proof of the vehicle's liability insurance.
Illustration (#5) shows our notice.

<pic images/smog3.ps (#5) The request for a smog test>

The registration fee depends on the type of vehicle and for our
extremely sporty but materially undervalued PERLMAN, it is only 65
dollars. This is composed of a $40 registration fee, a $51 license
plate fee, an $8 San Francisco surcharge, minus a $34 Arnold
Schwarzenegger discount (<RBLINK>20040301#10</RBLINK>).

Because we have the personalized license plate PERLMAN instead of an
anonymous number, we pay an extra $25. However, this goes to a good
cause, like the conservation of the Grand Canyon or something
similar.

<pic images/smog2.ps Invitation to the smog test>

And every two years, the notice includes a surprise message: You have
to go for a smog test, the American version of the emissions test.
There are two types of this test, the regular and the strict one. For
the regular test, you simply go to any gas station with a "Smog Test"
sign and pay about $60. However, if the notice states that you must
go to a "Smog Test-Only" station, the options are more limited, and
super-accurate inspectors will conduct the smog test.

<pic images/smog.ps A gas station with smog check service>

To the "Smog-Test-Only" you are only invited if you drive a vehicle
that a) has previously failed the smog check or b) is known to be not
particularly environmentally friendly. And then there's a lottery
where c) you draw the short straw and are randomly selected by the
DMV. Detailed explanations and tips can be found at <LINK>http://www.smogtips.com</LINK>.

Newer cars, by the way, are being connected to a computer at the smog test station, and
the test rig extracts values from it. A colleague of mine once had
to have a new board computer installed in his perfectly functioning BMW M3
for over $1,200 because its smog test interface was broken. Otherwise,
he wouldn't have passed the smog test, which is crazy! Fortunately,
PERLMAN doesn't have an onboard computer yet. But he still received a
certificate for passing the smog test, as shown in Figure (#2).
Passed with flying colors!

<pic images/smogc.ps (#2) The smog test certificate>

When you buy a used car in California, you have to pay California
sales tax on it, approximately 8.5%, depending on the county. If you
buy a car from a private individual, the DMV collects the tax amount
when you register the vehicle. If the stated price is suspiciously
low, the market value is used instead.

<pic images/lola.ps A creatively arranged bus>

<pic images/mexi2.ps The Mexico variant>

<pic images/graffiti.ps Graffiti on a furniture truck>

The value of a used car is determined by the so-called "Kelly Blue
Book," which can now also be viewed
<LINK>http://www.kbb.com|http://www.kbb.com|online</LINK>.
It actually says there that our beloved PERLMAN, a 1991 Acura Integra
with 170,000 miles on the clock, is only worth $1165. Outrageous!
However, it has been running perfectly for years without any
maintenance (just oil changes) and was very happy for the four new
tires I recently bought for it for $320. We'll stay together until
the fenders fall off, Perly!

<pic images/ambience.ps A restored ambulance: From "Ambulance" to "Ambience">

@Z: Top product: "Goo Gone"

<pic images/goo2.ps (#8) Goo Gone" to the rescue>

It often happens that you buy something with the price tag still
attached. These small, pesky, cheap stickers are incredibly stubborn!
Woe betide if you only tear off the surface of the label, because
then the sticky residue won't come off ever, no matter how hard you try.
Most of the time, you end up fiddling around for hours, treating the
residue with foul-smelling substances like gasoline or turpentine,
rubbing your thumb raw, and possibly even removing parts of the
purchased product. Plastic, in particular, can quickly become dull doing this.
But it doesn't have to be that way, because there's "Goo Gone," which
removes everything powerfully and gently.

"Goo" is the American word for a stubbornly sticky substance. For
example, if you don't clean a bathtub despite regular use, after a
while, a thick mass settles at the bottom. "Goo" can perhaps best be
translated with the Bavarian word "Baaz." And "Gone" means
"disappeared," so "Goo Gone" means something like "Baaz disappeared."
"Goo Gone" comes in a convenient spray bottle, is easy to apply, and
has a pleasant scent reminiscent of a mix of tangerine and marzipan.

TODO

Take, for example, the padlock in Figure (#7). There was a sticker on
the back with the combination on it, and it didn't come off
completely. A little "Goo Gone" was sprayed on, waited a few minutes,
and it came off effortlessly. All that was left was attractively
shiny metal and a mandarin-nut scent in the air. Hmm.

<pic images/goo1.ps (#7) A lock with a half-torn sticker ...>

<pic images/goo3.ps (#9) The translation to English is: "... and
shortly thereafter: mirror-like shine.>

I know someone whose father runs a few cinemas, and he always has to
clean the floor and seats of stuck-on chewing gum and spilled cola
after the show. He claims that there is a professional cleaner that
dissolves stickiness even more powerfully than "Goo Gone," but that
"Goo Gone" is pretty much the best thing an average person can buy. A
nice gift from your next trip to America for your loved ones at home!

@Z: San Francisco Views: Noe Valley

<pic images/noe.ps (#4) Noe Valley: Taxi in front of a Victorian
house on Guerrero Street>

<em>Angelika:</em> 
You already know: The neighborhood we live in is called Noe Valley
and it has become one of the most popular residential areas in San
Francisco. And although we have mentioned it in one of our
newsletters from time to time and every somewhat better travel guide
now lists it as worth seeing, we want to share a few things with you
that hopefully aren't in the "Lonely Planet" yet.

San Francisco is known for its unique neighborhoods, and Noe Valley
is no exception. The popularity of the neighborhood can also be seen
in the housing prices. According to our neighborhood newspaper "Noe
Valley Voice," the average price for a single-family home in April
2005 was a hefty $1,188,625. In May 2005, the average rent for a
one-bedroom apartment was $1,489, while two-bedroom apartments
averaged $2,286.

At first glance, the many Victorian wooden houses stand out, as the
great earthquake of 1906 spared Noe Valley: The neighborhood is
situated on rocky ground, and the fires following the quake were
stopped before they reached Noe Valley. A solitary fire hydrant at
Church St. and 20th St. provided the life-saving water and was
therefore painted gold. We are also blessed with plenty of sunshine,
as the fog is kept at bay by the Twin Peaks hills. Geographically,
Noe Valley is in good and interesting company, as it is located
between the Mission, the South American neighborhood, and the Castro,
the stronghold of the gay movement.
Of course! Please provide the text you would like translated into
English.

What we appreciate most about this neighborhood, besides the
countless restaurants, small shops, and good public transportation,
is the cozy, family-like atmosphere with an international flair and
almost without the American monotony (unfortunately, there is already
a "Starbucks" - sigh). For example, when we go to Michael's favorite
restaurant "Savor" on 24th St., which is known for its savory and
sweet crepes, one of the waiters greets us like old friends.

Even with the owner of the Thai restaurant "Swatdee Thai," we always
start with a chat about everything under the sun. At "Hamano," one of
our favorite Japanese restaurants located on Castro St., I actually
managed to snag a table for four in no time, despite the long line of
people ahead of us, which would have meant at least an hour's wait.
The owner recognized his loyal neighborhood customers and let us go
ahead. Unfortunately, he has since sold his restaurant, but the place
continues to operate under new management.

<pic images/marthas.ps Noe Valley: Philosophers and Philosophaster in
front of Martha's Coffee Shop>

You can best capture the neighborhood's vibe at "Martha's": Not only
do they serve good coffee, but customers also lounge around
philosophizing on chairs and benches in front of the cafÃ© in the
sun. By the way, "Martha's" is still family-owned. However, there are
now several branches in San Francisco. But Martha, originally from
Nicaragua, opened her first coffee shop in 1987 on 24th St. in Noe
Valley, and coffee lovers like me, who need their daily dose of
caffeine, occasionally encounter the real Martha in her store.

An exotic shop by American standards is hidden behind the cheese shop
"24th Street Cheese Company," where cheese enthusiasts can find a
selection of cheese entirely in the European tradition. The
phenomenon that in many parts of America, you can only find packaged
"Cheddar" cheese and maybe a Camembert has always fascinated me,
especially since there is no shortage of milk-giving cows here.
Amusingly, the owner of the cheese shop is Asian. He is always
terribly exasperated when American tourists from non-cheese regions
come into the shop recommended by travel guides and then leave
without buying anything. However, cheese is clearly trending, at
least in San Francisco and the surrounding area. North of San
Francisco, there are now several small cheese dairies (e.g., around
the Point Reyes area). However, the prices for cheese are still
enough to make you cry.

Regarding cows: they once grazed in Noe Valley, as the land was part
of the "Rancho de San Miguel" farm and was, back in the day, located
on the outskirts of the city. The owner had the melodious name Jose
de Jesus Noe. By the way, Noe is pronounced No-ii. For a short time,
Noe Valley was also called "Horner's Addition," because in 1852, John
Horner bought parts of the farm from Mr. Noe and began diligently
building houses. However, the boom only occurred when the cable car
started running from Market/Castro St. to the steep 26th St. in 1887.
Today, a bus runs there, and the cable car operates elsewhere.

In the late 19th century, immigrants, mainly from Ireland, Germany,
and Italy, arrived. The neighborhood developed into a traditional
working-class district. Many Germans worked in butcher shops, as the
long-time residents of the neighborhood can still recount today. The
Irish pub "The Dubliner" and the German store "Lehr's" in Noe Valley
bear witness to these roots. "Tuggey's Hardware," a store that sells
all kinds of tools and screws, has existed since 1900, for example.
And in our building, some people have been living here for over 30
years. "Rent Control" makes it possible.
<RBLINK>20000801#8</RBLINK>
The Republican real estate agent on 24th St. has been delighting the
neighborhood with his conservative views for over 50 years.

When the internet companies were booming a few years ago, many
dot-commers flocked to Noe Valley because, with their high salaries
and stock options, they could suddenly afford anything and drove the
prices in the neighborhood even higher. This happened much to the
chagrin of the residents who had been living in Noe Valley for
decades. Since the bubble burst, everything has calmed down a bit.

<pic images/realf.ps Protests against "Real Foods" on 24th Street>

Otherwise, a liberal spirit blows through the neighborhood, and the
people are politically and socially engaged. For example, when our
organic supermarket "Real Foods" was taken over by a company in Utah
and suddenly laid off all employees in the fall of 2003, there were
protests. The official reason given was that renovations were planned
for the store. The suspected real reason: the employees wanted to
unionize. Almost two years later, no renovations have taken place,
but the very active community group "Friends of Noe Valley" organized
a weekly market that takes place every Saturday from 8 AM to 12 PM,
so that people in the neighborhood can continue to buy organic
vegetables and fruits.

<pic images/phoenix2.ps Noe Valley: Bookstore>

Or when the independent bookstore "Cover to Cover" faced closure in
the summer of 2003 due to financial difficulties, enthusiastic book
lovers from Noe Valley helped it get back on its feet by finding a
smaller, more affordable store in the neighborhood. Loyal customers
committed to spending $25 in the store every month. Forty people
pooled together and provided a loan totaling $200,000 to pay off
outstanding debts and restock the store. You wouldn't have thought
that something like this could happen in capitalist America. 

Funnily enough, it was more or less by chance that we settled in this
neighborhood back then. We didn't know Noe Valley at all at the time.
However, Michael wanted to live in a hilly area that reminded him of
the series "The Streets of San Francisco." Thanks to "The Streets of
San Francisco." 

Greetings from "Noe":

The translation of "Angelika und Michael" to English is "Angelika and
Michael.

