San Francisco, 09-25-2005

@Z: Arnie is coming to Yahoo!

<pic images/arnie5.ps The "Gouvernator" stops by Yahoo!>

TODO

<em>Michael</em> 
In mid-August, our (ahem!) beloved "Gouvernator" Arnold
Schwarzenegger stopped by for a visit at the Yahoo! cafeteria. I had
already been wondering in the morning when I came in why part of the parking garage was
cordoned off, but it was probably so that the famous gentleman could
enter the cafeteria through the back entrance, where a bunch of
Yahoo! employees were already waiting for him.

He once again told the same old story about how he came to the USA as
a poor lad back in the day, armed only with his bodybuilding
knowledge, and the American Dream and blah blah blah. Only the
pleasant political topics were touched upon, but it was a fun visit,
and indeed, it was amusing.

<pic images/arnie4.ps Arnie with Yahoo! CEO Terry Semel>

My cubicle neighbor had an expensive DSLR camera with him and left it
with me in the cafeteria when he had to go back to the office. Later,
due to security regulations (overcrowding in the cafeteria), he
couldn't return, such bad luck! So, I just grabbed his camera,
struggled a bit with the ISO settings and focus, but some of the
pictures actually turned out quite well.

@Z: The Daily Show

<pic images/daily1.ps Jon Stewart on "The Daily Show">

<em>Michael</em> 
It has already been mentioned that you can no longer watch TV news in
the USA. The channel "Fox" is the mouthpiece of George W. Bush's
Ministry of Propaganda. And he is increasingly embarrassing to most
Americans I regularly interact with. The previously quite objective
channel CNN has recently been reporting in a strangely one-sided
manner. And the local stations don't cover world news, but rather
local nonsense, weather, and sports. The Iraq war only seems to
interest these editorial teams if there is news about a soldier
from the local county who died.

Since most Americans do not get their political information from
newspapers but instead keep the TV on, the most well-known networks
determine the political stance in the country. In the medium of
television, a picture often says more than a thousand words. As a
result, hardly anyone internalizes political content. However, as
soon as Bush appears in rolled-up shirt sleeves, like after the
disaster in New Orleans, everyone knows: The man is doing something.

There are indeed radio stations like NPR that broadcast profound
political analyses and TV programs like "News Hour with Jim Lehrer"
on KQED that delve into political topics. However, since only a small
minority in America stays engaged with more complex stories for
longer than 30 seconds, these political programs are limited to a
niche market.

But something has changed: Instead of seriously delivered news (which
is actually ridiculous), there is now a funny show on the channel
"Comedy Central" that people with sense actually watch instead: "The
Daily Show" with Jon Stewart.

In the first few seconds of the show, a kind of news studio appears,
but when the host starts to scribble on his pad during the pounding
intro music, seemingly diligently but like a three-year-old, it
quickly becomes clear that it's a parody. And yet, this is currently
almost the only show on American television that clearly states that
American foreign policy is not very well received at the moment and
that Bush is not the smartest. High-ranking guests from politics
appear and give interesting interviews.

When a strongly religious, ultra-conservative figure in the Senate
spouts nonsense and the house goes wild, it rarely makes it to the TV
news. But if it's funny, it is guaranteed to be featured on the Daily
Show, and thus at least a humor-interested minority learns about the
clown show, despite the censorship attempts by the established
broadcasters.

Almost all of my colleagues are also avid fans of the show, which is
eagerly discussed at the lunch table. Interestingly, it had looked like the late-night
programming scene was set in stone for years: It was clear that David
Letterman would continue indefinitely, and Jay Leno would work on the
competing channel for another five years before being replaced by
Conan O'Brien. But suddenly, on the little-known channel "Comedy
Central" (which also launched the series "South Park"), the unknown
Jon Stewart appeared and shook up the entire scene. The show cannot
be compared to sluggish offerings like Letterman or Leno; Jon
Stewart is incredibly sharp and clever. Everyone is talking about the
show, and it receives tremendous support, especially among circles
that have become disillusioned with the government. You learn what's
happening in the world, and you can laugh at the same time. Perfect.

And when a reporter in New York tries to see if someone in a Nazi
uniform can hail a taxi with the Hitler salute, it's super funny! By
the way, it didn't work; no taxi stopped, and passersby gave the
masked reporter the middle finger. All legal, as the First Amendment
of the Constitution in America still guarantees the right to free
speech.

<pic images/daily2.ps Field experiment on the "Daily Show": Can you hail a taxi in New York with the Hitler salute?>

@Z: Trader Joe and Rainbow Groceries

<pic images/trader1.ps Trader Joe's>

<em>Angelika</em> 
In Germany, by now, every store has its own bonus program. When a
customer buys something, bonus points are credited to chip cards,
which shoppers can redeem later. When I recently bought something at a
pharmacy during a visit to Germany, I was handed different colored
plastic tokens along with a brochure explaining how many tokens I
needed to get a pack of tissues for free. Almost like in Americ!

Here in the USA, you practically need a separate wallet to keep track
of everything. Not only does every supermarket hand out club cards
for future special offers, but the coffee shop around the corner also
entices customers with punch cards. After ten punches, meaning ten
paid coffee drinks, you get the next one for free. The intention, of
course, is to keep the customer loyal to their store. Additionally,
supermarket cards allow them to study customer purchasing behavior or
target them with advertisements later. Privacy is taken less
seriously in America than in Europe. These cards have become a
nuisance to me because I constantly forget them, as I don't want to
carry around a super-heavy wallet all the time. That's why I love
stores like "Trader Joe's" even more. This unusual supermarket chain
neither hands out club cards nor offers a single special deal in the
store.

This is a nearly revolutionary and at the same time un-American concept. The
company's motto is: "Trader Joe's" always offers everything at the
lowest prices. German tourists are always amazed in American
supermarket chains like "Safeway" at how wide the aisles are and the
overabundance of goods (e.g., in the aisle with the various types of
cornflakes) available there.

"Trader Joe's" can be found with smaller stores often located in more
remote areas, with narrow aisles and a limited selection. Products
often do not carry brand names but instead bear the "Trader Joe's"
label. Customers will also search in vain for the typical American
bulk packages. A bottle of beer costs exactly one-sixth of a
six-pack.

The selection makes European hearts beat faster: European cheeses at
reasonable prices, exclusive wines, good olive oil, great chocolate,
e.g., from Droste, fruit juices without added sugar, chips without
colorings and artificial flavor enhancers, eggs from happy hens,
unsulfured dried fruits, as well as various organic products that
delight the eco-heart.

At the register, the merchandize is only packed in paper bags. You will wait in vain for
the question "Paper or plastic?" at the "Trader." And no one wrinkles
their nose at our huge blue plastic tub that we always bring and use
to pack our goods for transport. Most customers pack their purchased
items themselves. This seems to be an unwritten rule in American
alternative stores. But don't try this in a regular supermarket, as
it might earn you dirty looks from the cashiers, who might think they
aren't fast enough for you.

<pic images/hausmarke.ps House brand coffee "Trader Joe's">

Full-time employees at "Trader Joe's" receive health insurance, and
the company contributes to a company pension plan, even though the
employees are not unionized. Interestingly, in America, many
employees in supermarket chains like Safeway are union members and
work under negotiated union contracts. This usually leads to better
hourly wages and social security (namely health insurance). So, when
you hear about striking Safeway employees, it's about renegotiating
contracts, often sparking fierce battles over benefits like health
insurance. Incidentally, the hourly wages at "Trader Joe's" are said
to be higher than those at supermarkets that pay under union
contracts. 

"Trader Joe's" was founded by a certain Joe Coulombe in Southern California.
He was the proud owner of a small grocery store chain, "Pronto
Markets," and in the late 1960s, he had to find a way to compete
against the growing competition from 7-Eleven stores. So, he decided
to enhance his stores with gourmet items and good wines at affordable
prices -- that was the birth of "Trader Joe's." In the late
seventies, he sold everything, and you can guess to whom: Theo
Albrecht, one of the German Aldi brothers. While there are already
Aldi stores on the East Coast of the United States, they are unknown in
California. From the outside, you can't see Trader Joe's affiliation
with Aldi at all, as that probably wouldn't go over well with the
rather alternative clientele.

Any politically over-correct eco-friendly person in San Francisco,
however, goes to the "Rainbow Grocery," because after all, "Trader Joe's" is
a chain with now over 200 stores in the USA. Michael always claims
that you can only shop at the Rainbow if you have at least one
piercing or tattoo and are a vegetarian or vegan, or an old hippie.

Rainbow is owned by its employees, who not only run the store
but also collectively decide which products are sold. You won't find
any meat at "Rainbow." In the early seventies, during San Francisco's
hippie era, an ashram in the city, which is a spiritual
community--you know, with a guru and all--started the Rainbow
movement. The idea was to offer vegetarian, "pure" foods. The first
store was run by volunteer staff--meaning unpaid. After a few
relocations, the store is now on Folsom Street and is quite large.
Initially, I always thought you had to be a member to shop at
"Rainbow." Far from it: Rainbow is essentially an eco-supermarket for
everyone, with the unique feature that the employees are also the
owners.

<em>Michael</em> 
Sure, in America, ruthless capitalism prevails. But precisely because
everyone knows that people without money have nothing to laugh about,
and also receive nothing or very little from the state, many high
earners feel obliged to donate something to the not-so-well-off. Germans
would be more likely to say, "I already pay so much in taxes, the state
should take care of the bums, right!" But here, many publicly and
proudly show that they also care for the disadvantaged.

Recently, Yahoo! organized an initiative to give underprivileged
children a backpack filled with supplies for a good start to the
school year. Participating employees could choose a sticker for "Boy" or "Girl,"
purchase a backpack designed accordingly, fill it with various school
supplies, and drop it off. By the end of the week, there was an
entire tower of backpacks in the entrance hall!

<pic images/yep.ps Yahoos provide schoolchildren with backpacks.>

@Z: Rising Gas Prices

<pic images/tank.ps (#3) The gasoline prices are skyrocketing.>

I don't really need to tell you in Germany about expensive gasoline.
But lately, here in our cheap-gasoline country, prices have been
skyrocketing to the point where it makes you dizzy. Especially the
owners of gas guzzlers are groaning when the gas station attendant
laughs in his booth because the fools are already paying with a $50 bill
for the third time in a week.

TODO

"Right on!" I say, nothing better could have happened. This way,
people at least learn that taking the train and riding a bike aren't
so foolish. Or the purchase of a "hybrid" vehicle like the Toyota
Prius, which runs partly on electricity and partly on gasoline. By
the way, a new law has just passed in California, allowing drivers of
these environmentally friendly vehicles to pick up a sticker from the
DMV in California, which then allows them to use the carpool lane
during peak hours (even without a passenger!).
<RBLINK>20010701#1</RBLINK>
The translation to English is: "to be allowed to speed on the
freeway.

In figure (#3), you can see that the cheapest gasoline currently
costs $3.25 per gallon (0.71 euros/liter). For comparison: In
<LINK>http://usarundbrief.com/43/images/rotten.html|March newsletter
from the year 2003</LINK>
The translation of the given German sentence to English is: "Do you
see that the most expensive gasoline back then cost $2.03 (0.44
Euro/liter) and that even then it seemed outrageous to me?

And figure (#4) is a short excerpt from the film "Crimes and
Misdemeanors" by Woody Allen from 1989. Within 15 years, the price of
gasoline has tripled. And as far as I'm concerned, it can keep going.
I fill up maybe once a month for $20, even though I commute 50
kilometers one way every day.

<pic images/gas.ps (#4) In 1989, the world was still in order: 1
dollar per gallon.>

@Z: Kolibris

<pic images/kol1.ps Hummingbird incoming!>

I'm not exactly Heinz Sielmann, but in sunny California, there are
some curiosities in the animal kingdom that even fascinate me as a
techie. Recently, we were in Point Reyes, and during a hike, I almost
stepped on a snake that slithered lightning-fast across the path.
Phew, that was a close call.

We had rented a cottage, and the owner had set up two sugar water
containers to attract the local hummingbirds. I had seen these
fascinating birds before, but I had never noticed the racket their
wings make when you're standing two meters away. And the creatures
zoom around each other so quickly that it makes you dizzy.

<pic images/kol2.ps The hummingbird sips at the sugar water.>

A hummingbird is only about five centimeters in size, but as is well
known, they do not glide through the air like normal birds; instead,
they hover in place like an insect. To remain stationary in the air
despite their not insignificant weight, they must move their wings so
quickly that you can only see blurred outlines, similar to a
helicopter rotor. Because of the humming sound they make,
hummingbirds are called "Hummingbirds" in English.

@Z: Freakonomics

<pic images/freak.ps Freakonomics" by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J.
Dubner>

Recently, I devoured a book that I absolutely must recommend. The
intellectual father of "Freakonomics" is Steven D. Levitt, an
economist, but not of the ordinary kind. Unlike millions of business
students who mindlessly parrot the principles of Adam Smith, Levitt
approaches questions with an open mind and scientific rigor. The book
is not about macro- or microeconomics. It is about human,
all-too-human reactions to economic stimuli.

For example, in Japanese sumo wrestling: During the annual
championships, wrestlers must win eight or more out of 15 matches to
remain in the league. This raises the question of how two wrestlers
typically fare when one is already on the safe side (with eight or
more wins), while the other (with seven or fewer wins) still
desperately needs points. Is it conceivable that in such situations,
the better wrestler might take it easy and let the weaker one win?
Indeed, the analysis of the data confirms this hypothesis.

Or what was the reason for the unexpected decline in crime in the USA
in the 1990s? Was it the drastic increase in prison sentences for
even minor offenses? Surprisingly, much suggests that it was actually
the legalization of abortion (a Supreme Court decision called "Roe
vs. Wade") that made a significant contribution to reducing crime.

Such explosive conclusions naturally encounter tumultuous resistance,
especially in the ultra-conservative USA. However, Levitt is not
politically interested at all; he merely draws conclusions that can
be proven with reliable data.

A brilliantly written book by someone who is committed only to the
truth, no matter how uncomfortable it may be. Hats off.

@Z: Bureaucracy in the Space Age

After five years, a California driver's license expires and you have
to apply for a new one. It's a mere formality. The responsible
authority, the DMV (Department of Motor Vehicles), has quite a bad
reputation, but recently it hasn't been as slow and disorganized as
generally assumed. I received a letter by mail stating that a new
driver's license needed to be applied for, and this could be done
either by sending a form to the DMV by mail or, brand new, via the
internet. I'm always up for modern conveniences, so I went to
http://www.dmv.ca.gov, where I not only found a button for "Online
Driver License Renewal" but also could immediately enter the number
included with the letter, quickly confirmed that my eyesight is still
reasonably good, paid $25 by credit card through a secure browser
connection, and that was it. To my great surprise, the new driver's
license arrived by mail just three days later. That's how I like
dealing with bureaucracy!

<pic images/dmv.ps The page of the Department of Motor Vehicles>

With the request to renew the driver's license, a form was included
to register as a voter. In America, there is no mandatory
registration, and when someone moves to another state, they first
apply for a new driver's license there. To be eligible to vote in the
next election, one must register as a voter in that state, and
conveniently, the motor vehicle registration authority handles this.

However, you are only allowed to do that if you are an American
citizen. We, on the other hand, are still German citizens, even
though the immigration authority has recognized us as "Permanent
Resident Aliens." The form in Figure (#1) also states that there are
severe penalties for providing false information.

<pic images/vreg.ps (#1) The form to register as a voter>

@Z: Land unter: Hurrikan Katrina" translates to "Land under:
Hurricane Katrina" in English.

<em>Angelika</em> 
I had a feeling: If an earthquake comes, we have to help ourselves.
The images and reports about the failure of the American government
and also the local politicians on the American Gulf Coast to quickly
implement relief efforts after Hurricane Katrina prove me right. Not
to mention the lack of extensive preventive measures for a
foreseeable disaster. Even Michael no longer mocks my earthquake
emergency kits, which are stored under our bed and can provide us
with essentials like water, food, a battery-operated radio, a first
aid kit, and warm clothes in the event of a severe earthquake.
<RBLINK>990401#3</RBLINK>
.

He no longer makes fun of our little cards that we both carry in our
wallets, which list, in addition to phone numbers outside of
California (the likelihood of these working is greater), the place
where we will meet if there has been an earthquake and our house is
no longer habitable. He just mentioned recently that we would also
need a weapon to defend our supplies (haha!). If you think San
Francisco is prepared for a major earthquake, I have my doubts. The
wrangling over the Bay Bridge in San Francisco, which was damaged by
the Loma Prieta earthquake in 1989 and was only temporarily patched
up afterward, is ominous. It took more than 12 years (spring 2002)
before construction work to earthquake-proof the Bay Bridge finally
began.

The completion of the new bridge arch, which connects Oakland halfway
to San Francisco with Treasure Island and Yerba Buena Island, will
still take years. Driving over the Bay Bridge remains a risky
endeavor. At least our mayor, Gavin Newsom, launched the 72-hour
campaign. Posters and advertisements on city buses are meant to
remind us, the residents of San Francisco, to prepare ourselves to be
self-sufficient for 72 hours in case of an emergency (see my
earthquake emergency kits in Figure (#6)). The website
www.72hours.org provides further assistance with preparations. And if
all else fails, we hope for your care packages from Germany.

Did we wonder about the chaos in New Orleans and similar places after
the hurricane? Not really! Michael cynically remarked right away,
what do you expect from a nation that fixes many things only
temporarily with thick, strong tape ("Duct Tape",
<RBLINK>20030310#3</RBLINK>
...repaired and also generally displays a certain carelessness when
it comes to construction. The main thing is that it goes quickly and
somehow works. The Americans' boundless optimism that things won't
turn out so badly certainly played a role as well. Not to mention the
environmental sins committed in New Orleans.

In a city that lies below sea level and is regularly threatened by
hurricanes, the wetlands serve as an important buffer for wind and
water. Unfortunately, these areas have increasingly disappeared to
create land for development. Renowned experts therefore believe that
in the rebuilding of New Orleans, it is not only necessary to raise
the levees but also to restore the wetlands. Unfortunately, we hear
little about this from those in charge, especially President Bush. He
also denies the existence of global warming, which can lead to
stronger hurricanes. The enlightening articles in the New York Times
and the New Yorker are of little help, as Bush is known not to read
newspapers but instead relies on reports from his advisors.

The increased gasoline prices as a result of the storm, because,
among other things, oil production in the affected areas has come to
a halt, are already causing him concern. And, of course, his
dwindling popularity ratings. We never thought we would live to see
this day, but the press--even Bush's right-wing "propaganda
organs"--came down on him hard. Suddenly, there was a strong wave of
discontent among the population: the richest country in the world
failed to rescue its own people (real Americans, so to speak) from
the floods in time, and New Orleans descended into anarchy. This did
not sit well even with conservatives, leading Bush to grudgingly
admit for the first time in his presidency that he had messed up.

In front of the illuminated St. Louis Cathedral in the French Quarter
of New Orleans, he gave a speech to the people, also to improve his
image. Before the live broadcast, the commentator amusingly mentioned
that the White House pointed out that the cathedral was brightly lit
by specially flown-in generators, as many neighborhoods in New
Orleans were still without power. They likely wanted to preempt
criticism that the President was wasting resources on-site while the
population sat in the dark. The speech included the usual promises of
aid for reconstruction, primarily financial in nature. It was
interesting that Bush addressed the issue of poverty, which is rooted
in racial discrimination. You saw the television images: mainly the
poor, the elderly, and Black people remained in New Orleans, those
who did not have the means to leave the city, meaning they neither
owned a car nor a credit card.

This is naturally also due to the fact that Black people make up
almost 70% of the population in New Orleans. Unfortunately, Black
people are disproportionately part of the group of American poor.
However, the mention of being Black and being poor seems more like
lip service from Bush, as the proportion of the poor increased during
his presidency. The tax cuts for the wealthy in the country, along
with the refusal to raise the minimum wage, also contradict his
words. And although Americans donate enormous sums (as they are doing
now in the case of the hurricane), many still hold the view that
poverty is self-inflicted and that government programs are the wrong
way out of the misery.

The slow response of the Bush administration in sending aid to the
disaster area is also rooted in the Republican belief, Bush's party,
that the state should play as small a role as possible in the lives
of Americans. President Reagan already coined the phrase that the
state is not the solution, but the problem ("Government is the
problem, not the solution."). The struggling Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA), which thrived under Clinton and withered
under Bush, is the best example. Compounding the issue is Bush's
tendency towards cronyism, meaning he appoints people to positions
who are connected to him but not necessarily qualified for the job.
The FEMA chief Michael Brown, who has since resigned, had no
experience in disaster management. They might as well have hired me
with my one earthquake training.

We will see if lessons have already been learned from the mistakes,
as the next hurricane, "Rita," is at the doorstep. In any case, the
residents of Houston did not need to be asked twice to leave the
city, which, however, led to total chaos on the highways. Nothing was
moving anymore. It might be smarter and more efficient if people
didn't all flee in their own cars, but instead, for example, if
shuttle buses were provided to take them to shelters, as there are no
more hotel rooms available. But no one asks me.

@Z: Arnie again

This week, our "Gouvernator" Arnold Schwarzenegger revealed to us
that he will run for election again in California in November 2006.
The man is showing courage, as according to newspaper reports, he
currently has the approval of only 34 percent of the population.

In August 2004, it was still a proud 65 percent. Schwarzenegger fell
out of favor with the unions of California's teachers and nurses, and
his initiative to hold a special referendum this November is also
causing Californians to grumble. Many believe it is a waste of money.

Arnold remains on the hit list of homosexuals and supporters of
same-sex marriage. This is because the California legislature passed
a law ("gay marriage bill") in early September to legalize same-sex
marriages in California. It was a historic moment, as California is
the first state where the decision was made by the state legislature,
rather than a court (as in Massachusetts).
<RBLINK>20040518#9</RBLINK>
.

The joy was short-lived, however, because Arnie immediately announced
that he would use his veto power, meaning he would not sign the law:
In his opinion, only the voters or the Californian courts have the
mandate to legalize same-sex marriage. So the dispute continues.

@Z: Top Product: Etymotic Headphones

<pic images/etymotic.ps The super earphones from Etymotic>

<em>Michael</em> 
I have tried many headphones in my life. When you're on the go,
however, there's always the problem of ambient noise spoiling the
listening experience. The airplane roars or the train rattles, and
you have to turn up the portable music player quite a bit just to
hear anything at all. This is not only unenjoyable but also extremely
harmful to the ears, which can become irreparably dulled. That's why
there are so-called "noise-cancelling" headphones, which
electronically create a counter-noise to the external sound,
effectively filtering out static noises like humming or droning.
However, if some idiot three seats away starts talking on their phone
during a train ride, even noise-cancelling won't help anymore.

That's why the company Etymotic offers small earphones that are not
just placed in the ear, but are inserted directly into the ear canal.
Soft sealing rings hermetically seal the ear canal from the outside
world.

Forcing a plastic piece into the ear canal is, of course, unusual.
However, it is surprisingly comfortable and, in the long run, much
more pleasant to wear than even a regular headphone, whose foam pads
rest on the earlobes.

The insulation is so good that no sound from outside reaches your
ears. Even if the conductor asks for your ticket for the third time
-- no chance, someone has to tap you on the shoulder, otherwise you
won't notice. And because no disturbing outside noise overlaps the
music, you don't need to turn up the volume much. Deepest bass and
highest treble -- everything is crystal clear. Of course, the whole
thing isn't exactly cheap; I have the Etymotic 6i, which costs about
$100. But they are truly worth every cent. And there are even more
expensive ones!

@Z: Top Product: Airborne

<pic images/airborne.ps The Airborne Medicine>

And yet another top product: In the USA, there is this hysteria about
colds. Everyone avoids anyone who sneezes or blows their nose, and
anyone who has a cold naturally cancels all appointments immediately.

In the meantime, the hysteria has also caught up with me, and ever
since I read somewhere that you usually catch colds by touching
something bacteria-laden and then rubbing your eyes, I am always
extremely careful about where my hands are.

But sometimes you just have to sit next to a sniffling neighbor on a
plane, or the air conditioning in the office distributes bacteria
evenly across all the cubicles. For these situations, there is a new
herbal medicine called "Airborne," which you take when you enter one
of these crisis areas or already feel the first signs of a cold in
your throat.

Airborne" was developed as a home remedy by a teacher who eventually
got tired of constantly catching colds because there were always one
or more sick students in class. And, the remedy works surprisingly
well. Once, I even felt a terrible scratch in my throat, and the next
day the cold broke out. But thanks to promptly taking "Airborne," it
was quickly alleviated and was over after just two days. Great
product! Available for about 5 dollars at Trader Joe's.

@Z: New Gimmicks on the Internet

<pic images/maps.ps The new Google satellite images: Las Vegas from
above>

Recently, something came out that made me think: It's amazing what an
exciting time we live in. The internet company Google released an
innovative map service that allows you to see both street maps and
the corresponding satellite images. Curious?

The translation of "Dann schaut euch mal" to English is "Then take a
look" or "Then have a look.
<LINK>http://usarundbrief.com/cgi/u.cgi/p|The Yahoo! buildings from a
height of 30,000 meters</LINK>
The translation to English is: "There is even a website where people
publish links to Google's satellite images that
<LINK>http://perljam.net/notes/interesting-google-satellite-maps/|Bes
ondere Sehenswürdigkeiten" translates to "special sights" or
"special attractions" in English.</LINK>
Translate to English: "From Michael Jackson's 'Neverland Ranch', to
the White House, to the large stone arch in Arches National Park,
everything is included.

The German word "sogar" translates to "even" in English.
the house in which we live
The translation to English is: "can be seen. The brilliant thing
about it, of course, is that you can directly
<LINK>http://usarundbrief.com/cgi/u.cgi/t|The translation of "zur
Straßenkarte" to English is "to the road map.</LINK>
can switch. If you
<LINK>http://usarundbrief.com/cgi/u.cgi/r|zoom out further</LINK>
The translation to English is: "You see, in which region of San
Francisco we live.
<LINK>http://usarundbrief.com/cgi/u.cgi/s|Even further out</LINK>
...and you can see where we are located on the American continent.
The absolute best part is that you can move the map with the mouse
and travel around the world. Those Googlers are really clever foxes.

@Z: The phrase "Bonanza Comeback" is already in English. If you need
further explanation or context, please let me know!

<pic images/bonanza.ps (#2) The Ponderosa Ranch is located near
Carson City and Reno in the state of Nevada.>

When the TiVo recently picked up a rerun of the Western series
"Bonanza," which I used to greatly enjoy, I noticed a map at the
beginning of the show that displayed the location of the Ponderosa
Ranch. Ha! It's right near Reno and Carson City in the state of
Nevada, a bit north of Las Vegas! We must have unknowingly driven
over the area on one of our road trips.

Oh, memory! The main characters Ben Cartwright (Lorne Greene, died
1987), Little Joe (Michael Landon, died 1991), and Hoss (Dan Blocker,
died 1972) have been dead for a long time. The
<LINK>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bonanza|Bonanza entry on
Wikipedia.org</LINK>
The sentence translates to: "brings everything back to life for a
moment. How time flies.

@Z: Missing election documents

<em>Angelika</em> 
In our country, hurricanes are raging, and in yours, it's election
chaos. However, it's not my fault because, even though I wanted to
dutifully exercise my right to vote in the federal election, I was
unable to cast my vote. I already mentioned in the newsletter that
you have to apply to be entered into the electoral register of the
municipality (in my case, Munich) where you were last registered in
Germany.
<RBLINK>20020917#2</RBLINK>
), specifically for each election separately.

The responsible authority then sends the postal voting documents to
you. Due to the early election, the schedule was particularly tight
this time, as the postal voting documents were only sent out at the
end of August. A letter to San Francisco takes a good five to seven
days, and then everything has to be sent back after marking the
ballot, as the completed voting documents must be received by 6 p.m.
on election day, which in Germany is a Sunday, a day when the mail
carrier is known not to work.

The election was approaching, but our mailbox remained completely
empty. So I decided to call the election office at the district
administration department in Munich and prepared myself for a
conversation with a grumpy Bavarian official. However, the woman on
the phone was extremely nice and informed me that my application had
been received properly and that they had sent the election documents
to 3370 in San Francisco. Unfortunately, our house number is 3770.

In America, however, mail is delivered strictly according to the
address and not the name of the recipient. This means that the letter
did not reach me despite the tiny error, which caused astonishment at
the election office. The friendly lady promised to take care of it
and call me back. The next day, our answering machine was indeed
blinking, and when I listened to it, a shrill melody first played,
probably the same one that everyone hears when they are on hold with
the district administration office.

I was supposed to provide my fax number via telephone, after which
the election office would fax a template of an affidavit. I would
then sign it, and the election documents would be sent out again.
However, I was unable to give the election office my fax number:
after two hours of trying to get through, I gave up in frustration
and went to bed, because due to the time difference, you can only
call German authorities at night our time.

The whole thing probably wouldn't have worked out anyway because of
the long postal delivery times. I even called the responsible post
office in San Francisco in search of my absentee voting materials.
But they couldn't help me either and just said that the letter would
be returned to the sender (hmm!). Or my documents are floating around
in the Mexican neighborhood "Mission," because house number 3370 is
there.

Greetings from the house with the number 3770:

The translation of "Angelika und Michael" to English is "Angelika and
Michael.

