San Francisco, 12-8-2005

@Z: Aggressive Cyclists

<pic images/bike1.ps Cyclist with a sign "Bicycling against Oil Wars">

<em>Michael</em> 
Riding a bicycle in large American cities requires courage and nerves
of steel. In San Francisco, this has led to cyclists being seen as
aggressive daredevils who don't follow traffic rules, get upset for
no reason, and with whom it's best not to start any discussions.
Exactly right, haha!

No, it's not quite that bad, of course. Most of them are quite
reasonable people. The dubious reputation is fueled by a few
troublemakers who really misbehave. In June 2005, an incident
occurred on the Embarcadero in San Francisco, not far from the
tourist area "Fisherman's Wharf", which turned into a
<LINK>http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?f=/c/a/2005/06/22/BAroadrage22.DTL|noteworthy scene of violence"</LINK>
A car driver and a cyclist started a discussion that eventually ended
with the cyclist deliberately ramming his bike's handlebar into the car's
side window. Not exactly gentleman like behavior! The car driver, a
73-year-old retiree, lost it, grabbed a (illegally!) stored gun from
the glove compartment, and fired a shot at the cyclist. However, he
didn't hit the culprit but instead a 20-year-old Asian woman who was
peacefully jogging by on the sidewalk at that moment. The cyclist
initially fled but later turned himself in to the police. The retiree
was immediately arrested. Just another day in San Francisco ...

<pic images/bike3.ps Cyclist in the Mission District>

While we're on the topic, I will tell you about two peculiarities of cycling
in America. The first peculiarity is that hardly any bicycle has a
bell. Recently, after many years of riding without a bell, I finally
bought one, but before that, I had followed the American principle: When
overtaking someone on the left, you call out "On your left!" from
behind to let them know, so they don't make any careless swerves and
get in your way.

The second peculiarity comes when making a right turn: Instead of
extending your right hand horizontally to the right as in Germany,
you raise your left (!) hand to form an "L" shape upwards. You learn
this procedure when you get an American driver's license. The
driving instructor actually asks: If the car's turn signal is not
working and you want to turn left, how do you signal that? You extend
your left hand horizontally out of the window. And when turning
right? You hold your left arm bent upwards out of the window. When
cycling, this looks very elegant and fits the overall picture, as
cycling in San Francisco, due to the many hills (at least downhill),
is almost like hang gliding.

@Z: Open Studios San Francisco

<pic images/ostudio1.ps An open artist studio in the industrial district "SoMa">

<em>Angelika</em> 
The saying "art is a breadless profession" is well-known, and
unfortunately, there is a grain of truth to it. Because, let's be
honest, who really manages to exhibit their works in renowned museums
or galleries? However, once a year in San Francisco, anyone willing
to pay $165 gets the chance to present their art to a wider audience.

<pic images/ostudio2.ps Here the artists exhibit their works.>

On four weekends in October, the so-called Open Studios take place,
and artists of all kinds open their doors, either those of their
studios, if they have one, or even their private homes.

All you need to participate is a valid address in San Francisco.
There is no selection process or anything like that, so the quality
of the art on display varies accordingly. The Open Studios have been
happening in San Francisco for 30 years. ArtSpan, a non-profit organization,
manages the whole event, including the creation of the catalog. To
prevent art enthusiasts from rushing around the city like crazy to
visit as many studios as possible, the city is divided like a pie:
each weekend, a different area, consisting of several neighborhoods,
is featured. The artists naturally hope to sell as much as possible
and make connections in the art world.

@Z: Database Of Sex Offenders

<pic images/view1.ps Yikes! The neighborhood in the foreground is home to 10 convicted sex offenders?>

<em>Michael</em> 
Recently, I came across something strange on the internet: a publicly
accessible database of convicted sex offenders. Go to the website of
the <LINK>http://www.nsopr.gov|National Sex Offender Public Registry</LINK>
of the US Department of Justice.
After you accept the fine print with "I agree," click on California
on the map (the elongated state on the West Coast) and enter our
postal code 94114 as the Zipcode. A click on "Search" will provide a
list of convicted sex offenders in our neighborhood who have since
been released from prison. If you click on the names in the list, the
police photos of these individuals will appear, along with their full
names and information about their offenses, and in some cases, their
current addresses, including street name and house number! You can even
view their addresses on a digital map. The following clause is
intended to prevent anyone from threatening or harassing these
individuals: "ANY USE OF THIS INFORMATION TO THREATEN, INTIMIDATE,
HARASS, OR CREATE A CRIMINAL ACT AGAINST ANOTHER PERSON WILL RESULT
IN CRIMINAL PROSECUTION."

The address information is public because of legislation called
<LINK>http://www.co.lake.ca.us/countygovernment/sheriff/meganslaw/thelaw.html|Megan's Law"</LINK>
It dates back to 1996 and was signed by
President Clinton at the time. In a small suburb in the
state of New Jersey, 7-year-old Megan Kanka was murdered in 1995 by a
man who was a convicted sex offender and had lived in the same
neighborhood for years. The law is intended to ensure that citizens
are aware when a convicted sex offender is living in their vicinity.

In a recently aired episode of the controversial yet funny TV series
"Curb Your Enthusiasm" (<RBLINK>20030310#8</RBLINK>)
Larry David invites a newly moved-in man to his party at his home and
casually mentions to his wife, "by the way, he's a publicly known sex
offender," which causes the wife to freak out. Needless to say, the
party turns into complete chaos. Larry David knows no taboos!

@Z: The San Francisco Super Insider Tip

<em>Michael</em>
And here is a new series in the newsletter: Absolute insider tips
that only people who have lived in San Francisco for years know about.
Today: What to do with loose change? Because you never know exactly
how much something costs due to sales tax and therefore can't count
out the change you will need to get rid of in advance, you often
end up with unwanted coins. Quarters can usually still be used, but
dimes, nickels, and pennies are hard to get rid of, and sooner or
later they'll be tearing holes into your pocket. The solution: Take the MUNI
streetcar from the Embarcadero, Powell, Montgomery, Civic Center, or
Van Ness stations. The streetcar lines in this area run underground,
and at the fare gate, there are turnstiles that--unheard of in the
entire USA--accept any loose change! So when you pay the $1.50 for a
ride, you could theoretically insert 150 individual pennies! I've
tried it with about 30 and paid the rest with nickels and dimes, and
it worked flawlessly. That was the super insider tip for this issue.
But  wait for the next issue which will feature the best publicly accessible
restrooms in downtown. Until then!

@Z: Discuss in the newsletter forum

Die-hard newsletter fans probably noticed right away: The newsletter
is now available in a new online format. After 9 years, it was high
time to make our entertaining letters a bit more modern. The newsletter now
runs under the domain <LINK>http://usarundbrief.com|usarundbrief.com</LINK>
so that people don't have to remember the 'perlmeister'. And also
a new <LINK>http://usarundbrief.com/forum/viewforum.php?f=1|Discussion Forum</LINK>
is now a place where you
can ask questions and give praise or criticism to the newsletter
writers. Let's hear what you think about it! Discuss eagerly!

@Z: Once again Hawaii

<pic images/pano2a.ps Panorama on the Napali Coast>

In November, I managed to wrangle 10 vacation days from Yahoo! once
again, and we took off to Hawaii. Since we've already been to all the
islands, we had to start over: So we went to Kauai again, the green
island all the way in the west.

We didn't just laze around on the beach; we also undertook some
grueling hikes that really wore us out. And believe me, my life
hasn't been short of brutal hikes. The so-called "Alakai Swamp Trail"
is 10 miles long and requires overcoming some elevation, which
takes a solid 6 hours. And a few days later, we tackled the
Nualolo-Awaawapuhi Trail, which was another 10 miles long with a
2,000-foot elevation difference. On such a trail, you hardly
encounter any Americans, but naturally, you meet Germans and a
British couple. And on the way back to the parking lot, where we hiked
along the road for a while, a Frenchman gave us a lift for the last
stretch. Apparently, Americans have an aversion to grueling hikes.

<pic images/canyon.ps The Waimea Canyon in the evening light>

We rented a total of two different vacation homes, first one for
seven days in Kekaha, a bit off the beaten tourist path. When we
picked up our rental car and asked for directions, the car rental
lady actually directed us to the tourist beach Poipu, which made us
laugh! Kekaha is a remnant, a rather quiet place on the edge of a
now-closed sugar cane factory, with an access road to the Waimea
Canyon. We shopped almost every day at the Japanese supermarket
"Takahashi" in Waimea, where they had "Poke," which is deliciously
prepared raw tuna. Our cabin had a charcoal grill, and after I bought
charcoal and lighter fluid at the supermarket, I lit the first grill
fire of my life (at home, of course, I have a gas grill). What I
learned: Never squirt lighter fluid onto partially burning coals. It
does say on the packaging not to do that, but as you know, I don't
take advice. Now I know why the warning was on the lighter fluid.

<pic images/ampel.ps A discarded traffic light on the edge of a sugarcane plantation>

In the north, we then stayed for a few days north of Kilauea, where
there was, however, a severe shortage of geckos and an excess of
mosquitoes. We probably should have brought the mosquito eater from
picture (#1) from Kekaha, where I photographed it.

<pic images/gecko2.ps (#1) The gecko on the house wall.>

@Z: Top product: Sand Digger

<pic images/sanddigger.ps The "Sand Digger" - an anchor for the beach umbrella>

In Hawaii, there is always a pleasantly warm, gentle breeze, which
can occasionally become a bit gusty. If you have drilled a large sun
umbrella into the sand, it can sometimes be torn from its anchoring,
and then you have to chase after the runaway umbrella in a completely
uncool manner.

That's why there is the "Sand Digger," a patented sunshade anchor
that you screw into the sand, and then attach the sunshade to the
holder, which sits as firmly as in cement. The manufacturer guarantees
securely fastened sunshades up to wind force 4. Available for only
about 10 dollars at Wal-Mart!

@Z: Online Printing At Costco

If you print your digital photos on an inkjet printer, it is
extremely expensive. The printer ink mafia has ruthlessly driven up
prices in recent years. Additionally, the quality of the photos
usually does not withstand the expert eye; the photos are not of the
same quality as those from a print shop, primarily due to the
printing process.

If you take the images on a CD to a photo development service, the
results can vary. The mega supermarket "Costco," on the other hand,
offers a service where you can upload the images via the internet and
then pick them up a few hours later at the nearest Costco location. This is
nothing special in itself, but what is exciting is that you can
provide Costco with a so-called "profile" along with the images, so
that they print the photos exactly as they appeared on a calibrated
screen at home in photo editing software like "Photoshop" or "Gimp."

The whole process works like this: Volunteers have a reference photo
developed at a Costco store every few months, analyze the result, and
calculate the color profile from it.

On the website of
<LINK>http://www.drycreekphoto.com/Frontier|drycreekphoto.com</LINK>
he current profiles are listed for almost every Costco location in the entire
USA. To select the Costco in San Francisco, you first click on
"California" under "US States" and then scroll down the list on the
right to "San Francisco." Under "Costco #144," it states that this
branch has a "Noritsu Model 3111" printer that uses "Fuji Crystal
Archive Paper." There is a profile available for both glossy and
lustre/matte photo paper. I tried it out, and the result was
astonishing. And the price is unbeatable at 17 cents for a 4x6 photo.
I actually know photo professionals who have their pictures developed there!

@Z: Schemes Of Credit Card Companies

<pic images/checks.ps The credit card company offers a low interest rate and provides the checks as well.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
The persistent view holds that every American pays even the smallest
amounts with their credit cards, and when paying with cash, people roll
their eyes in a condescending way: "Look at this poor guy, he has to hand
over bills because he can't get a credit card." However, it's not quite that
bad. You pay for your coffee at the "coffeeshop" in cash, and no one
finds it strange. On the contrary, many smaller businesses even set a
minimum amount (between 5 and 15 dollars) from which customers can
pay with credit cards.

On the other hand, it is true that American daily life is difficult
to manage without a credit card. Try booking a car, hotel, or flight
without a credit card; it's a hopeless endeavor. When I first
traveled to the USA at the tender age of 21, I didn't have a credit
card because German banks at the time wouldn't dream of issuing one
to a penniless student. My friend Marianne and I wanted to rent a car
in Las Vegas without a credit card and had to sift through the Yellow
Pages of Las Vegas until "Brooks-Rent-A-Car" finally agreed to give
us a car if we deposited our return flight tickets and some
travelers checks. Or take shopping online: since America doesn't have
the direct debit system as understood in Germany, nothing works
without plastic money.

In America, credit cards actually embody what the name promises. When
a customer pays with a credit card, credit is granted, and interest
accrues after a certain period, the so-called "grace period" (usually
20 to 25 days). In Germany, at least in our time, it was still common
to link the credit card to the checking account, meaning the amount
due was simply debited from the account (let us know if this has
changed in the meantime). Such cards do exist in America as well, but
they are called "debit cards" and are not considered real credit
cards. However, they are indispensable for foreigners who have just
settled in the USA and have not yet obtained a traditional credit
card.

As long as the credit card holder keeps paying their credit card bill, which
arrives once a month, on time and in full, they are in the clear. But
beware, if interest and fees accrue, then paying with a credit card
is actually the dumbest thing you can do, because credit card
companies really take advantage. The level of interest and fees and
the methods used are comparable to loan sharks; there was an
interesting article about it recently in "Consumer Reports" (similar
to the German "Stiftung Warentest").

First, there are different interest rates depending on what the
credit card holder does with their credit card. If they withdraw cash
from an ATM with their credit card, a different, higher interest rate
applies than if they use it for purchases. Additionally, the "grace
period" is eliminated for cash withdrawals, even if you always pay
your bill in full, meaning interest accrues as soon as the ATM
dispenses the money. Furthermore, customers are usually charged a fee
of 2-3% for using the ATM. The credit card company lists on the bill
which interest rate applies in which case. For example, with our Chase Visa
card, it's 22.74% for cash advances and 18.74% for other purchases.
(By the way, we pay our credit card bills in full every month).

Behind the percentage listed lies the annual percentage rate (APR), which
varies from customer to customer. The free market rules here, as
there is no law that dictates how high this interest rate can be. If
you pay your bills late or exceed your credit limit, there are not
only penalty fees, but the annual interest rate is also adjusted
upwards. So don't believe the TV shows where the waiter politely and
discreetly returns the credit card because it has been maxed out and
the transaction couldn't be processed. In real life, the credit card
company would rather charge the customer an average of 30 dollars for
this offense and allow further charges on the card.

The credit limit granted is determined individually for the customer
by the credit card company. If we use certain cards frequently, our
credit limit miraculously increases after some time. Many credit card
companies even increase the annual percentage rate if the customer
pays a bill from another credit card late or applies for a new credit
card, citing that the customer's behavior poses an increased risk for
them as well. The customer might be in financial trouble and need a
new credit card for that reason. The companies obtain information
about the individual customer's payment behavior by accessing the
much-discussed "Credit Report" (<RBLINK>20040518#4</RBLINK>)
With our Chase card, paying the required minimum payment
late could cost us up to 39 dollars. The minimum payment is the
portion of the granted credit that must be paid off each month, no
matter what, usually 2% of the outstanding balance, which is not
exactly a huge amount. Many financial advisors and consumer
associations bitterly complain about this because if you only pay the
minimum required amount and nothing more, it can take years to pay
off the Christmas gifts that were all bought with a credit card.

Many credit card companies also try to attract new customers by offering
them favorable introductory interest rates (or even interest-free
periods) for a few months. They are particularly interested in having
you transfer balances from competitors' cards to the new card. We
constantly receive such offers: "0% Introductory Rate." This
initially sounds good to many, but the interest rate naturally
increases after the introductory months. And often, the
favorable rate only applies to the transferred amount and not to any new
purchases.

Although everyone thinks that there are countless companies offering
credit cards, the five largest, namely JPMorgan Chase, American
Express, MBNA, Bank of America, and Citigroup, dominate 65% of the
market, according to the Consumer Reports magazine in November 2005.
Of course, credit cards still come in a variety of different
designs. Michael particularly loves the cards that have some kind of
bonus programs, such as getting 2% cash back on certain purchases at the
end of the year or being able to collect eBay points when using the
card. However, we always attract the most attention with our Linux
Mastercard (incidentally from MBNA), which features the Linux penguin
on the card. Everyone always comments on how nice it looks, but they
usually don't know that behind Linux lies Michael's favorite
operating system for the computer.

@Z: CD of the Month: "Friday the 13th" by Maroon 5

<pic images/friday.ps "Friday the 13th" by Maroon 5>

<em>Michael</em> 
Actually, I shouldn't really recommend this CD because it has a nasty
copy protection. Of course, I didn't buy it; instead, I listened to
it (legally!) on the new Yahoo Music Engine (YME). There, you pay
$11.99 a month and can then listen to unlimited music, day and night,
and choose from more than a million songs. It's still in the beta
phase and extremely unstable, but as a Yahoo! employee, I get it for
free, so I can't complain. Apple will be on alert if this takes off
and competes with its iTunes!

About the CD: I've never heard a live album like this in my life.
Precise sound, an enthusiastic audience, and the voice of singer Adam
Levine hits every note absolutely perfectly, which is actually
amazing given the complicated melodies of Maroon 5. I've listened to
the album many times from start to finish, and I could go wild with
every song. I just have to be careful at work not to stomp my feet
too hard when I listen to the album with headphones.

@Z: "Leffe" Beer

<pic images/leffe.ps The Belgian "Leffe" beer>

In the meantime, I'm not really used to German beer anymore. Of
course, when I travel to Germany for a week every few years,
Andechser Doppelbock and Augustiner Edelstoff are provided there. But
in the absence of these great beers, I've adjusted my beer taste in
America. Nowadays, I enjoy drinking "India Pale Ale" (IPA), which is
a flavor that might seem almost bitter to uninitiated palates. "White
Hawk" from the Mendocino Brewing Company is one of the best.

But recently, I discovered a new treat at the beer shop around the
corner: the Belgian "Leffe." It costs the incredible price of $9.95
per six-pack (!), but it is truly unique. Extremely smooth and it
flatters the palate immensely, I think there's a hint of wheat beer
in it. There are also other Belgian beers, like "Chimay," which is
sold in larger bottles at wine prices. Not bad either, but where are
we headed if a bottle of beer suddenly costs $6? Trader Joe's
seriously sells it. Sometimes the Americans are a bit crazy.

@Z: The Tooth Fairy Is Coming

<pic images/toothfairy.ps A children's book about the Tooth Fairy>

<em>Angelika</em> 
The little things that are different in Germany compared to America
always fascinate me anew. In the summer, we visited our friends in
Portland, and the son of the house had a loose tooth. He excitedly
told us that as soon as he lost the tooth, the Tooth Fairy would
come, which greatly astonished Michael, as he had never heard of the
Tooth Fairy before. I was already familiar with her from various
stories and children's books from the kindergarten in the Tenderloin,
where I work. Here's how it works: When a child loses a milk tooth,
they place it under their pillow. During the night, the Tooth Fairy
(i.e., the parents) comes and exchanges the tooth for money, usually
1 dollar nowadays. In contrast, back in the day, I used to place my milk teeth in a
matchbox lined with cotton. There was no money involved.

Your crooked-toothed Europeans in San Francisco:

Angelika und Michael
