San Francisco, 02-15-2006

<pic images/cmwon.ps Chinese tombstone>

@Z: Dying in San Francisco

<em>Angelika</em> 
Attentive tourists in San Francisco will certainly notice that there
are hardly any cemeteries here. In contrast, cities like Munich
boast venerable burial sites in almost every district. This is
because San Francisco has banned cemeteries from the city. As early
as 1900, the city fathers prohibited the establishment of new
cemeteries within city limits, the digging of new graves in the
then still numerous city cemeteries, or the conducting of further burials.
Due to the Gold Rush of 1849, San Francisco's population had grown
dramatically, and over the years, buildable land had become too
valuable to reserve for the dead.

Soon after, the city took another step forward. The cemeteries
received the order to be cleared, and San Francisco began relocating
existing graves, including the buried deceased, outside the city gates
to Colma, located 15 kilometers to the south. As always in San
Francisco, the whole process did not proceed without citizen
protests. It wasn't until the early 1940s that the last cemetery was
moved to Colma.

<pic images/cmpm.ps Tombstones from way back when.>

Hold on, that's not entirely correct. Three cemeteries remained in the city
due to their historical significance. This includes the "San Francisco
National Cemetery," reserved for war veterans, located on the grounds
of the Presidio, the former military base near the Golden Gate
Bridge. Today, burials in this location are only conducted in exceptional cases.
The second is the cemetery belonging to the old Mission Dolores,
where many Native Americans, who helped build the mission, found
their final resting place. And then there is the "San Francisco
Columbarium," a unique neoclassical building from 1897 that houses
urns and was formerly part of a cemetery called "Odd Fellows."

<pic images/cmcol2.ps The columbarium in San Francisco>

Today, only the Columbarium building remains at the end of a small
cul-de-sac in the Richmond district. You can still reserve a spot for
your ashes there. Although the Columbarium survived the severe
earthquake of 1906 and the forced relocation of cemeteries, it
gradually fell into disrepair from 1934 to 1979 until the Neptune
Society (a cremation company) took it over and lovingly restored it.
Each urn is placed in a cabinet about 15x15 inches in size, with either a
glass door or a copper door. The cabinets look like shelves set into the
walls of passageways. Many of the niches now contain not only the urn
with the ashes but also small mementos reflecting the deceased's
preferences. So, if you are one of those people fascinated by
cemeteries and you find yourself in San Francisco again, be sure to
visit the Columbarium. 

If you don't want to be cremated after your death and haven't
reserved a niche in the Columbarium, as a resident of San Francisco,
your only option is one of the 17 cemeteries in Colma. Colma is
surrounded by the San Bruno Mountain Range and the Freeway 280.
Besides the cemeteries, Colma has a few typical American shopping
centers and car dealerships. Colma has about 1,300 residents and is
home to almost 2 million graves. For comparison: San Francisco today
has about 750,000 residents.

<pic images/cmita.ps Front: Jewish Cemetery. Back: Italian Cemetery.>

<pic images/cmchi.ps Chinese Cemetery>

The diverse cemeteries reflect the cultural diversity of San
Francisco and its surroundings. Among the 17 cemeteries, there is an
Italian, a Greek Orthodox, a Jewish, a Catholic, and a Chinese one,
among others. When Michael and I visited the various locations on a
beautiful Saturday, we were surprised by the park-like grounds. Signs
indicated that sunbathing in the cemetery was not allowed, and the
Jewish cemetery was completely closed due to the Sabbath.

Inside the cemeteries, we almost felt like we were in another world.  Only the
highways, as well as the Toys-R-Us and the Target supermarket in the
background, taught us otherwise. We were also quite amazed by the pompous
mausoleums. By the way, normal graves in America do not have a grave outline or
planting. Only the headstone and a few flowers adorn the grave, which is
otherwise surrounded by the cemetery lawn. Often, the stone is a small square
plaque set into the ground, and the flowers are made of plastic. This, of
course, makes maintenance easier and fits the pragmatic nature of Americans.
And, typically for America, you can drive your car through the cemetery right
up to the grave.  English.

The latest trend, however, are so-called green burials, which are supposedly
more environmentally friendly. The deceased are not embalmed and are buried
either in a simple, biodegradable wooden box or just in a shroud, under the
surface of a the green hill. The impact on the landscape is meant to be
minimal, meaning there are no large headstones marking the grave or any
traditional cemetery layout. Relatives who wish to visit the grave later can
locate it using a GPS system provided by the cemetery company for this purpose. 

Now, you might think this is an American invention, but supposedly
the British are pioneers when it comes to green burials. Such burials
naturally resonate with the esoterically inclined and environmentally
friendly old hippies in California. So it doesn't surprise me that
there is already such a cemetery in Marin County, which is located
north of San Francisco. The Fernwood Cemetery, recently also called
<LINK>http://www.foreverfernwood.com|"Forever Fernwood"</LINK>
is not the first American cemetery to offer
green burials. As early as 1998, Billy Campbell, a doctor, came up
with the same idea in the city of Westminster in the state of South
Carolina. However, the operators of Fernwood are not only striving
for an alternative cemetery but also for a kind of nature reserve
that can later be used by the general public for hiking and other
activities. Therefore, only native plants are allowed to adorn the
graves, which are invisible anyway. But now, back to life.

@Z: San Francisco Views: Bernal Heights

<pic images/bhblue.ps Bernal Heights: Hippie House>

<em>Michael</em> 
In our series "Views of San Francisco," today we focus on the old
hippie stronghold "Bernal Heights." It is pronounced "Bernel Hites".
The name comes from Don Jose Cornelio Bernal, a rancher who was
granted the area of today's Bernal Heights in 1839 to let his cattle
graze there. Later, as the city of San Francisco began to grow,
Bernal Heights was initially sparsely populated but experienced
significant growth when the area, founded on stable rock, was largely
spared from the 1906 earthquake.

<pic images/bhchevy.ps Bernal Heights: Old Cars and Hippie Houses>

<pic images/bhpeek.ps Bernal Heights: A modern-style house with a view of the Bay>

Bernal Heights is home to hordes of super-rich old hippies. Day in and
day out, they mock the neighboring district of Noe Valley, claiming
that it became completely yuppified during the dot-com boom of the
90s. In their eyes, Bernal Heights is still home to true
alternatives.

That is, of course, nonsense. The truth is that in Bernal Heights,
while many people don't maintain their gardens and some park very old
cars on the street, the house and rental prices have also
reached dizzying heights. If you look closely at the photos, you'll
notice that I've edited them all with a filter that makes them appear
somewhat dreamy and blurred. This way, you see the area through the
eyes of the old hippies who live there!

In Bernal Heights, it is noticeable that there are hardly any shops.
Hardly anyone is on the street; everyone is sitting in their
expensive hippie houses counting their money. To spend it, they would
have to drive two kilometers to Noe Valley, as there is no good
public transport, because that would be bourgeois. Yet the
area is really beautiful, very hilly (the speedy newsletter reporter
had to shift to the first gear on his mountain bike and even had to
push once) and offers breathtaking views of the surrounding
neighborhoods like Mission, Downtown, the San Francisco Bay, and
various highway interchanges. On clear days, you can see all the way
to Oakland and Berkeley on the other shore of the Bay.

<pic images/bhvic.ps Bernal Heights: Victorian Houses>

<pic images/bhview.ps Bernal Heights: View of the "Mission" neighborhood>

The satellite image of Bernal Heights shows the easily locatable, light brown grass hill named "Bernal" in the summer,
on top of which stands a radio tower. If you drive east from Bernal
Heights, you will reach a neighborhood that we will probably never
feature in the "San Francisco Views" series: Hunter's Point, one of
the last truly violent neighborhoods that no hippie dares to enter.

<pic images/gps.ps (#2) GPS navigation system on a bicycle in Bernal Heights>

What stands out about Bernal Heights is its enormous density of
dead-end streets. Roads either end abruptly on steep hills or at the adjacent
280 freeway. If there were a statistic on American neighborhoods with
the most dead ends, I wouldn't be surprised to find Bernal Heights at
the top of the list. Anyone who makes the mistake of entering the labyrinth
without a navigation system will never find their way out. Of course,
the speedy newsletter reporter had his new GPS system with him (see
illustration (#2)) and escaped the old hippie fools after completing
his work with just a few strong pedal strokes.

@Z: On the State of the Nation

<pic images/union.ps Angelika with her favorite president>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Once a year, usually in January, the sitting American President
delivers a report on the state of the nation before the members of
Congress, including representatives, senators, and some invited
guests. This report is called the "State of the Union." I have
experienced this once before during Clinton's time in office
(<RBLINK>20000309#10</RBLINK>).
The same applies, by the way, to the respective "Governors" (Heads of
State) of the federal states and mayors of the cities, except
that the speeches are then called "State of the State" or "State of
the City".

The president's speech will be broadcast live on television. I had
actually sworn to myself never to watch another speech by Bush,
because it always ends with me yelling at the TV. I find Bush's grin
and his basking in applause unbearable. But one has to be informed in
order to participate in discussions. Of course, several speechwriters
have been working on the State of the Union address for weeks, so it
sounds great, but what is said has little to do with reality.

The speech, of course, serves the purpose of presenting Bush in the
best possible light. He portrayed the scandal of Americans being
wiretapped without court orders as a legal "terrorist-surveillance
program." Otherwise, he bombarded us with the usual platitudes:
fighting terrorism and radical Islam, tax cuts as a cure-all,
reforming Social Security, combating skyrocketing healthcare costs,
and America as the savior of the world. Yawn! But then the president,
deeply connected to the oil industry, said: "America is addicted to
oil, which is often imported from unstable parts of the world.

TODO

And he added another point, namely that 75% of American oil imports
from the Middle East must be replaced by alternative energy sources
by the year 2025. This alarmed the Saudi Arabian ambassador, who
speculated in dismay after the speech about what Bush actually meant
by that. Could it be that Bush is secretly an environmentalist and a
Democrat? No, because he only spoke about replacing oil with
alternative fuels like ethanol. He did not say that the dependency on
oil imports should be reduced by limiting American gasoline
consumption.

But the more liberal American press is increasingly picking up on
this idea. Columnist and Middle East expert Thomas Friedman is
tirelessly writing about it in the New York Times. His mantra is more
fuel-efficient cars and a high gasoline tax. After the speech, the
opposition is given the opportunity for a rebuttal, the so-called
"Rebuttal." However, this no longer takes place in Congress with an
audience. This year, Governor Tim Kaine from Virginia and Mayor
Antonio Villaraigosa from Los Angeles spoke for the Democrats, with
Villaraigosa delivering his response in Spanish, by the way.
Surprised, aren't you?

@Z: Müll

<pic images/threecans.ps Three bins for glass/paper/plastic, regular
waste, and compost.>

Our visitors from Germany are always surprised that recycling is also
done in San Francisco. America simply has a reputation for packaging
mania and a throwaway society. And for the most part, that's true;
Americans are still far from recycling as progressively as the
Germans do. For example, at larger private parties, most people still
find it quite normal to eat from paper plates and use plastic
cutlery. Or just think about how many paper coffee cups the
coffeehouse chain Starbucks hands out daily.

However, there is waste separation in San Francisco, but it works
differently here. Paper, cardboard, glass, aluminum, and plastic:
everything goes together into a large blue trash bin or box, which is
to be placed on the street on a specific day. The sorting is done by
the waste facility. They want to make it as easy as possible for the
customer. Only any compost that may be generated is placed separately
in a green bin.

<pic images/rec.ps (#4) This recyclable plastic bottle is type 1.>

Things made of plastic, on the other hand, are also a science in
themselves here. Only plastic bottles with the numbers 1 to 7 and
plastic cups and lids with the numbers 2, 4, 5 go into the blue bin.
The number is stamped on the bottom of the bottle or cup--the
American recycling symbol. The water bottle in the illustration (#4),
for example, has the number 1 in the stamped recycling triangle on
the bottom of the bottle. Into the bin it goes!

Caps from glass or plastic bottles, as well as bottle caps, are not
recycled, which Michael still hasn't understood, even though there's
now a large poster on our fridge showing the items that can go into
the blue bin. Recycling is becoming increasingly popular in America.
Many cities have similar blue bin programs like San Francisco. In
more remote areas, you often have to take matters into your own hands
and bring paper, glass, and cans to designated containers. During our
last vacation on Kauai, we drove around the island for miles with a
pile of old glass until we finally found the island's only glass
recycling container.

Green bins, intended for compostable waste, are also appearing more
frequently in front of houses in San Francisco. Many restaurants and
hotels participate in the city's composting program. The organic
waste is processed into compost by the company Jepson Prairie
Organics. Wineries in Napa and Sonoma spread it between their vines
so that the fine grapes for California wine can thrive. And speaking
of greenery: even Christmas trees are recycled in San Francisco. We
just have to place the undecorated tree outside our door at the
beginning of January.

Even though recycling is no longer a foreign concept in America,
California/San Francisco often takes a leading role when it comes to
environmental protection. For example, at the beginning of February,
a law came into effect in California that prohibits the disposal of
old batteries, neon tubes, mercury thermometers, and so-called
electronic waste (cell phones, printers, computer monitors,
televisions, VCRs) in household trash. This may not seem particularly
groundbreaking to you, but the law is considered one of the most
far-reaching in the USA. Additionally, starting in July, stores that
sell cell phones will be required to take back old ones. For a
change, we are aligning ourselves with European regulations.

@Z: The translation of "WÃ¶rter, die niemand kennt" to English is
"Words that nobody knows.

<em>Michael</em> 
In the series "Words Nobody Knows," we present English words that
even the most seasoned English speakers don't know, but every child
in America does. We guarantee that you can drive English teachers at
high schools crazy with them! So, use our words diligently in your
school essays! Today: What is the name of the ice resurfacing machine
for ice rinks? You know, those giant carts on four wheels with an ice
scraper at the back that makes the ice surface in stadiums nice and
smooth again between hockey games or ice skating events.

That is a 'Zamboni.' Named after its inventor Frank J. Zamboni, who
lived from 1901 to 1988. As is often the case, this word is also
described with extremely lovingly detailed explanations in Wikipedia,
the encyclopedia of the future. Just look it up under...
<LINK>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zamboni|Zamboni on
Wikipedia.org</LINK>
The translation to English is: "Afterwards, you will already know
everything worth knowing.

@Z: Top product: Roomba

<pic images/roomba.ps The little Roomba is scurrying around on the
carpet in my study.>

No one likes to pick up the vacuum cleaner. Pushing that heavy thing
around the apartment and then having to go back and forth over every
piece of lint five times until it finally gets sucked up -- it's
incredibly annoying.

Fortunately, for some time now, there have been small vacuum robots
like the "Roomba" that you just turn on, and it independently
explores the apartment. The saucer-shaped little guy remembers which
obstacles it encounters and gradually builds an internal map of the
apartment. Once it has covered all the corners, which takes about
half an hour depending on the room size, it beeps a cheerful melody
and turns itself off. The little fellow is surprisingly effective, as
it also goes under the couch and the bed, where a regular vacuum
cleaner would never reach.

However, the device is not yet perfect, so it can sometimes happen
that it loses some dirt or gets stuck on carpet fringes. But most of
the time, it manages to get itself out of the mess by trying
different strategies (backwards, forwards, turning) until it can move
freely again. It's a lot of fun to watch!

The Roomba runs on its rechargeable battery for about an hour, then
it needs to return to its charging station. If you don't want it to
roam through the entire apartment, you can limit its range with
so-called "Virtual Walls." These battery-operated blocks emit a
linear radio signal in one direction, creating something like a light
barrier for the Roomba, causing it to turn around immediately.

The Roomba in action.

I have a small video with the
<LINK>http://www.youtube.com/watch.php?v=fmQEzgH-fgM|Roomba in
action</LINK>
The translation to English is: "turned, as it just zooms under our
bed, comes back out, and then tackles the dirt under the dresser. By
the way, there is also a second video from another Roomba owner that
is very funny.
<LINK>http://www.youtube.com/watch.php?v=UmeoObqcYNY|The Roomba
scares a house cat.</LINK>
.

I can only recommend the Roomba; it's just incredibly cool to lock it
in a room and let it work for half an hour while you turn on the TV
or tinker on the computer.

@Z: The best toilets in the city center

<pic images/bby.ps The translation to English is: "Outstanding
locations: Bed, Bath, and Beyond>

You know how it is: You're in the city center and need to use the
restroom. Restaurants and cafes don't like it when you just use their
toilets and sometimes make it quite difficult if you're not a
customer. But if you know your way around, it's relatively easy to
find establishments that allow you to use the restroom without having
to make any pseudo-purchases.

I must advise against using public toilets. Firstly, all subway
toilets were promptly closed following the September 11, 2001
attacks. Apparently, no one misses them, as they have not been
reopened to this day. Secondly, all public toilet facilities in San
Francisco are inaccessible because they are used by drug addicts for
cheap prostitution. So where does the average citizen go? Not to the
shady establishments that display "No Public Bathroom" or "Bathrooms
for Patrons only" signs. And not to the shady record-selling company
"Virgin" on Powell, which offers a large selection of CDs but has a
restroom that either doesn't exist or is constantly occupied--I
spared myself the details of finding out. A disaster.

The best restrooms in downtown are in the bookstores. The "Borders"
on Powell Street (between Geary and Post) is not only located right
on the cable car route, but also has decent toilets if you take two
escalators all the way to the top.

On Market Street (corner of 2nd Street) is the independent bookstore
"Stacey's," which also has excellent facilities on the upper floor
(stairs up, then directly behind the information desk next to the
magazine stands). By the way, Stacey's is an independent bookstore
that needs support, otherwise it will soon go bankrupt, so feel free
to buy your travel guides there.

<em>Editor's note: In January 2009, Stacey's announced that it would
close the store in March. The reason: declining sales caused by
competition from book chains ("Barnes and Noble", "Borders") and
online sellers ("Amazon").</em> 
Of course! Please provide the text you would like translated into
English.
<LINK>http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?f=/c/a/2009/01/06/BAF
N154UV2.DTL|Stacey's Bookstore is closing.</LINK>

It looks like your sentence is incomplete. However, I can help
translate the part you provided:

"Falls ihr im SoMa" translates to "If you are in SoMa" in English.

If you provide the rest of the sentence, I can help translate the
entire text for you.
<RBLINK>20030526#5</RBLINK>
At the corner of 9th Street and Bryant, there is a store called "Bed,
Bath, and Beyond" that not only offers excellent products at low
prices but also has a spacious and exceptionally clean restroom on
the first floor (take the escalator up) in the far corner by the down
comforters. I love going there; it's a real pleasure.

A similar situation applies to the area around Fisherman's Wharf,
where there is a branch of the bookstore chain "Barnes & Noble" that
even offers wonderful restrooms on the ground floor next to the
children's book section. McDonald's and Burger King branches also
usually have decent restrooms. However, like Starbucks branches and
gas stations, they sometimes issue a key with an oversized tag at the
counter, which you can use to unlock the restroom. This is petty and
mean, and also shows poor business sense, which is why these chains
should actually be boycotted.

You never have to walk around with a strained face in shopping
centers either, as every Target, Walmart, Home Depot, Circuit City,
and Costco has a restroom.

@Z: to threaten with termination" or "to threaten with dismissal

The USA is indeed a global leader in sales. Here, selling is done
like there's no tomorrow, using the best methods, some of which might
even be considered somewhat questionable by European standards.

However, this often also has advantages for the consumer. When
multiple providers offer the same service, such as an internet
connection, it is a major disaster for the service provider to lose a
customer. Firstly, it is extremely expensive to attract new customers
through advertising, with costs amounting to about 10 months' worth
of fees. And, almost as importantly, it is detrimental to the
company's image if 5 million customers suddenly become 4 million.
Then the stock price falls on the stock exchange, and no one jumps on
a slowing train. That's why companies try everything, I emphasize:
everything, to retain their customers.

No money to pay the bill? No problem, then the price will just be
halved. Still too expensive? Then the service will be free for a
while. You think I'm exaggerating? Just read through it.
<LINK>http://forums.slickdeals.net/printthread.php?t=60927|How to cut
your cable bill in half</LINK>
.

When you call a service and say you want to cancel, the
representatives act understanding and immediately connect you to the
so-called "Customer Retention" department. There, you get specialists
on the phone who try everything to keep you as a customer. If you
really want to cancel, it can be quite nerve-wracking because you
have to explain a hundred times that you're really not interested in
the extremely cheap alternative offer and actually want to leave the
provider.

The result is that many people simply call, threaten to cancel, and
then get the service for a completely ridiculous price for a usually
limited time. DSL is currently available for $14.99 a month. However,
Angelika has forbidden me from pushing for a lower price because she
is afraid that they might see through my bluff and actually cut off
our cable or phone.

@Z: In-N-Out Burger is already in English. It is the name of a
popular American fast-food chain known for its burgers, fries, and
milkshakes.

Fast food chains like McDonald's, Burger King, and Wendy's all have
their roots in the USA. This naturally raises the question of where
to find the best burgers. I should add that I might eat a burger once
every three months. Unfortunately, there isn't a single burger chain
in our neighborhood. A few months ago, there was a major construction
site across from us, and I was hoping that we would finally get one.
Instead, a bank and a fitness center moved in. My goodness! And since
I rarely drive anymore, I hardly ever pass by any burger chains.

Call me a snob, but instead of paying 50 cents for a trash burger,
I'd rather spend $2.50 for a decent one from "In 'N Out." And I would
even pay $5 for one if the quality of the meat were guaranteed. But
"In 'N Out" is already pretty good. They have the Double-Double, a
burger with two layers of meat and two layers of cheese.

A little-known fact about this chain is that you can choose the
number of meat and cheese layers yourself. For example, if you were
to order a Triple-Triple, you would get a burger with three layers of
meat and three layers of cheese. Of course, this can easily be
increased to the point of absurdity: Quadruple-Quadruple,
Quintuple-Quintuple, and so on. So a group of people in Silicon
Valley thought, let's drive to Las Vegas and order a 100x100 burger.
That means a bottom bun, then 100 layers of meat and cheese each, and
then the top bun.
<LINK>http://supersizedmeals.com/food/article.php/20060125050438458|T
he Unappetizing 100x100 Burger</LINK>
The translation to English is: "can be admired on the internet.

That reminds me of the documentary.
<LINK>http://www.amazon.de/exec/obidos/ASIN/B0006HGRLI/perlmeister04|
Supersize Me" by Morgan Spurlock</LINK>
The main actor, under medical supervision, eats only McDonald's fast
food for a month. The rule: Every time the McDonald's employees ask,
"Do you want to supersize it?" he must agree and consume the entire
meal. McDonald's has since discontinued this practice, but back then,
for a few extra cents, you could get enormous portions, a whole box
of fries, and half a barrel of cola. The calories contained in these
meals naturally caused the test eater to gain a dangerous amount of
weight within the test period, prompting the supervising doctor to
throw up his hands in despair. A noteworthy documentary, available on
DVD.

@Z: Do-not-call-List

<pic images/callid.ps The small caller ID box that displays the
caller's phone number.>

In the USA, it is indeed allowed for companies to call you at home to
sell you all sorts of nonsense. While this might sound amusing at
first, it becomes nerve-wracking over time. Of course, we have what
is called "Caller ID" at home (which outrageously costs 6 dollars a
month) so that the phone company can pass through the caller's
number. When the phone rings, I can read the caller's number on a
display. And our answering machine even announces the number while
it's ringing, so we don't even have to get up from the sofa when
another telemarketer calls.

If you happen to pick up when a telemarketing call comes in, you
typically hear nothing for about 5 seconds. You shout "Hello?
Hello??" into the phone until the automatic dialer of the
telemarketers connects you to the next available agent. They usually
ask, "How are you doing today?" and then you often hang up, already
annoyed. One of my colleagues uses the following strategy: When a
telemarketer calls, he says, "One moment please," as he supposedly
has something on the stove. After 60 seconds, he comes back and says
it will take a little longer. This way, the telemarketer has to stay
on the line and wait, unable to bother other people. It's a clever
idea, but there's an easier way.

For there is the
<LINK>https://www.donotcall.gov|Do-Not-Call-List</LINK>
Anyone whose phone number is on this nationwide USA list cannot be
called by telemarketers. If they do call, they face such high fines
that they actually refrain from doing so. I was initially a bit
skeptical, but I have to say that we hardly receive any telemarketing
calls anymore since our number has been on this list. Exceptions are
companies with which you already have contracts (for example, the
phone company) or non-profit organizations seeking donations. Adding
your own phone number to the list takes about 30 seconds. You simply
go to www.donotcall.gov, enter the number, and that's it. After about
two weeks, almost no telemarketing calls come through. If they do, I
usually say, "You realize that what you're doing is illegal?" and
most telemarketers are shocked.

@Z: Baby Bullet

<pic images/bbullet.ps A gift for the people who rode the first "Baby
Bullet.>

One would be amazed to hear that public transportation has been
improved here in Silicon Valley, and that in the land of car
enthusiasts!
<LINK>http://www.usarundbrief.com/31/images/mvcal.html|The ancient
Caltrain trains</LINK>
I have already written about this once before. For years, I used to
travel with them every day for about an hour from San Francisco to
Mountain View, which is located 50 km to the south, and back. For
some time now, there have been trains that no longer stop at every
small station but only at three stations. This shortens the travel
time to 45 minutes! The service is so good and gas prices are so high
that now crowds of people are taking the train to Silicon Valley. The
train sometimes runs with new, quieter carriages and is called the
"Baby Bullet," likely in reference to the Japanese bullet high-speed
trains. The comparison is, of course, laughable, because the Silicon
Valley rumble train only reaches about 120 km/h, but we are in a
developing country, so one can't complain.

On the first day the new Baby Bullet train ran, the conductors handed
out coffee mugs with the "Baby Bullet" logo to the loyal passengers,
and of course, I secured one for myself. In ten years, it will be
worth a fortune on eBay, bahahaha!

Greetings from the land of future environmental angels:

The translation of "Angelika & Michael" to English is "Angelika &
Michael," as these are proper names and typically do not change when
translated between languages.

