San Francisco, 04-21-2006

@Z: Fastrak

<pic images/fastrak.ps The Fastrak transponder for the car>

<em>Michael</em> 
San Francisco is known to be located at the northern tip of a peninsula. If
you want to go north, you take the Golden Gate Bridge to Marin. If
you want to go east, you drive over the gray Bay Bridge to Oakland.
To the west lies the Pacific Ocean, and only to the south can you
leave San Francisco without using a bridge.

<pic images/peninsula.ps San Francisco is located at the northern end of a peninsula.>

If you drive out of the city over a bridge, there is no charge.
However, if you drive into the city, it not only costs exorbitant
amounts of money ($5 on the Golden Gate, $3 on the Bay Bridge), but the
traffic also backs up because everyone has to stop and pay the fee in
cash at a small toll booth. The worst part: The average American
doesn't hurry, of course, creeping up to the toll booth at a snail's
pace, then awkwardly rummaging through their wallet for a few bills,
and perhaps even stalling their SUV in the process.

That drives me crazy. That's why I recently ordered Fastrak, the
American answer to "Toll Collect" and the Euro Vignette. You get a small
transponder box for your car, which picks up signals from the toll
station and automatically deducts the due amount from your credit
card-fed account.

Typically American, the device doesn't always work, of course. For
example, recently, we
drove back to the city in the evening from a day trip
to Napa Valley. Casually, I chose one of the two "Fastrak Only"
lanes, overtaking all the slowpokes who had to line up, and we
excitedly approached the toll booth. Because of a sign that read "Max
5 mph," I slowed down to 5 miles per hour. Okay, it might have been a
few miles more, but in any case, the little device in the car was
supposed to beep and the toll booth should display "Fastrak valid."
Instead, there was no beep, and the display lit up with "Call
Fastrak." Well, great.

<pic images/bayb.ps Top left and center: The two sections of the Bay Bridge, photographed from our window.>

Once I got home, I called the toll-free 1-800 number, but an
automated message informed me that calls are only accepted from
Monday to Friday. Seriously, where are we? On Monday, I called again,
and a friendly lady told me that this happens sometimes and that I
should just "try a few more times." If the transponder doesn't work,
a camera captures the license plate, and the charge is processed
using the license plate registered with Fastrak.

This actually happened; a few weeks later, I was able to see on the
website at http://www.bayareafastrak.org that the amount of $4
(Fastrak users get a one-dollar discount on the Golden Gate Bridge
compared to cash payers) was deducted. When Angelika drove over the
Bay Bridge some time later, the device beeped properly, and it also
worked flawlessly when returning from another trip to Marin. Things
aren't always precise in America, but in the end, they manage to get
it right.

<pic images/ftf.ps On the Fastrak website, you can see how often you have driven over which bridges.>

@Z: Calistoga Indian Springs

<pic images/isoview.ps Indian Springs>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Several American friends have asked us about the German spa system, both
fascinated and bewildered. Paid spa treatments are seen by Americans
as the icing on the cake of the German welfare state. However,
disappointment quickly followed when I explained that paid spa
treatments, in the traditional sense, have been dying out in Germany
for a long time.

Nevertheless, there are also places like health resorts in America.
These are usually characterized by special water. In California, you
can find several such places, as California's volcanic history means
that pleasantly warm water still bubbles up here and there from
geysers and the like. Calistoga, for example, is one such place; and
it has the nice advantage of being located right in the middle of the
wine region "Napa Valley." Calistoga is located about 80 miles
north of San Francisco. The small town has retained its Californian
charm and boasts some good restaurants and many so-called spas
(singular: "spa"). I believe you guys are actually now referring
to these in modern German
as wellness centers. In these, people burdened by everyday life can
relax with a massage or a mud bath. Calistoga is famous for its mud
baths.

Michael has so far been reluctant to bury himself up to his neck in
the mud made of volcanic ash because the mud is not changed from one
spa guest to the next. A bit sensitive, the man! I, on the other
hand, have already enjoyed such a bath, for which I bravely laid down
in something like a bathtub and let myself be covered with mud. The
mud is quite hot, and after a short time, sweat runs down your
forehead like nobody's business. But that's probably the point: to
detoxify the body and absorb the minerals from the mud.

Samuel Brannan opened the first hotel with a spa in Calistoga around
1860 because he dreamed of creating a second Saratoga Springs (a
famous resort in the state of New York). Allegedly, the name
Calistoga comes from a combination of the words California and
Saratoga. The idea of a hotel/motel with a spa is, of course,
brilliant and is still widespread in Calistoga today. Guests can
settle into the hotel and don't even need to leave for a few relaxing
treatments.

Our favorite accommodation in Calistoga is the "Indian Springs
Resort," which is located on the property originally acquired by Sam
Brannan. However, it's not the massages or mud baths that attract us
there, but the swimming pool fed by a natural hot spring. The
pool is Olympic-sized, and its water temperature varies between 90 to
102 degrees Fahrenheit depending on the season.

<pic images/ispoolv.ps The beautiful big hot pool at night>

The insider tip is to book a stay at Indian Springs during the
Californian winter months (November to February), as Calistoga
typically has quite cool nights during this time. There's nothing
better than scurrying through the cold night to the swimming pool and
then slipping into the warm water, making your legs tingle from the
temperature difference. As a hotel guest, you can use the pool until
midnight. Every time we're there, I feel like I'm in a Hitchcock movie. The pool
is dimly lit, and the water is steaming. Occasionally, you can see the
outline of a person through the mist. Eerily beautiful!

<pic images/ispool.ps Angelika at the health resort>

However, the fun isn't exactly cheap. To rent one of the small
cottages, you need to have some money to spare, especially during the
summer and fall months. The relatively new so-called "Lodge" on the
premises is a bit easier on the wallet, but the tastefully decorated
rooms there don't have a refrigerator or even a kitchen like the
rentable cottages do. By the way, Calistoga can even boast its own
mineral water, which is sourced from natural spring water. The
bottled water company is also called Calistoga and unfortunately now belongs to the
large Nestle group. If you're traveling in Northern California and
order a mineral water, you might be asked if a Calistoga is okay. Now
you know what that means.

@Z: Bureaucracy in Road Traffic Regulations

<pic images/garage.ps The Yahoo parking garage>

<em>Michael</em> One of the biggest stereotypes about America is that there is
no bureaucracy. However, as soon as you have dealings with authorities here,
you'll find that exactly the opposite is true; red tape is even worse here than
in Germany.  This certainly applies to the insanely complicated tax return, but
there are even more interesting examples.

Did you know, for example, that in California there are special
<LINK>http://www.dmv.ca.gov/pubs/vctop/d11/vc22456.htm|regulations for mobile ice cream vendors</LINK>?
Background: In 1999, a 4-year-old girl in San Bernardino (near Los
Angeles) ran towards a parked ice cream truck and was struck and killed by
a passing car. Two years later, the then-Governor of California, Gray
Davis (later replaced by Arnold Schwarzenegger), signed the "Destiny
Nicole Stout Memorial Act," named after the deceased girl. This law
introduced specific regulations for mobile ice cream vendors.
According to traffic regulations, an ice cream vendor is not allowed
to stop on roads where cars travel faster than 25 miles per hour.

Additionally, vendors must display large signs with the words "WARNING"
and "CHILDREN CROSSING" on both the front and back of the ice cream
truck. These signs must be at least 12 by 48 inches (30 cm x 123 cm)
in size to ensure they can be read from a distance.
If you want to know further details about this regulation, here's
a <LINK>http://usarundbrief.com/cgi/u.cgi/21|newspaper story</LINK>.

Another special feature is the application of traffic regulations to
private parking lots. For example, if someone shamelessly parks their
car in a disabled parking space at the supermarket, the police can
issue a ticket. However, this is only possible if there is a sign at
the entrance of the premises stating that traffic regulations also
apply on this private property. This serves as an invitation from the
supermarket to passing traffic wardens (who are often male in the
USA), who otherwise have no business on private property.

@Z: Ycantpark

<em>Michael</em>
I dug up these regulations because recently a police car drove up to
the Yahoo parking lot and issued hefty fines to all the cars parked
in disabled parking spaces without a disabled permit. They're not
cheap; each one cost about 300 dollars! I can, of course, only laugh
about these problems because I almost always ride my bike or take the
shuttle bus provided by Yahoo! to work.

Yahoo! has hired so many people in recent years that the parking
situation is sometimes a bit tense. If you arrive at the parking lot
after 10 a.m., you often can't find a parking space anymore and have
to either go to the valet parker (<RBLINK>990603#7</RBLINK>)
or to a slightly more distant alternative parking lot. Naturally,
it annoys us Yahoos when some people take up two parking spaces by
parking carelessly, thereby worsening the situation through their
negligence.

<pic images/yticket.ps (#1) Yahoo! Ticket for Illegal Parking>

In the age of ever-present cell phone cameras, the culprits are
therefore immediately photographed and uploaded to the image service
Flickr, which was purchased by Yahoo!, under the tag
<LINK>http://www.flickr.com/photos/ycantpark|"ycantpark"</LINK> and
relentlessly exposed on the internet. A hell of a fun! These issues
are then often extensively discussed on the company's internal mailing lists. For
example, some parking spaces are marked as "Compact," and only small
cars should be parked there, not monster SUVs. If someone does park
an SUV there, people get really upset! Normally, for parking
violations at Yahoo!, you receive an internal ticket (illustration
(#1)) that doesn't cost anything. However, as mentioned, recently the
police showed up, and there was a rude awakening for many who parked
incorrectly.

@Z: San Francisco in my Passport

<pic images/pass2.ps Finally, San Francisco is listed as my place of residence in my passport.>

<em>Michael</em> 
When I visited Germany a few years ago and wanted to jet back to the
USA after a week of vacation, the German border officer asked me if I lived in
San Francisco. This was quite logical, as Angelika had just passed
through the border exit control, and her German passport listed San
Francisco as her place of residence.

I, on the other hand, had not applied for a new German passport at that
time yet, because my old one was still valid, and accordingly, it listed
'Munich' as my place of residence. 'Yes,' I said, 'I live in San
Francisco.' Suddenly, the customs officer became agitated and
exclaimed, 'That's not allowed!' and 'No one knows where you live!'

<pic images/konsulat1.ps The German Consulate in San Francisco>

These two sentences are the hits at every American party where I tell
this story. Americans often can't stop laughing! In any case, I
solemnly promised the officer to apply for a new passport with the correct entry
at the next opportunity.

And that's what I did. If you live outside of Germany, the German
consulate in the country where you reside is responsible for issuing
new passports. Conveniently, San Francisco has a consulate
(incidentally, along with Los Angeles, the only one on the entire
West Coast of the USA) in the beautiful villa district of "Russian
Hill." I went there, paid 50 dollars in cash (checks or credit cards
were not accepted), presented my deregistration certificate from the
Munich registration office (required if you leave Germany),
as well as a birth certificate, a
marriage certificate, and my green card, filled out a form, and was
assured by the German-speaking employee that I would be called at
home when the passport was ready in about four weeks. I didn't even
get a receipt, but you can rely on German authorities, and
indeed, I was called after the waiting period had passed and was able to pick
up my new passport. And it correctly stated "San Francisco CA/USA" as
my place of residence. By the way, this entry is important if you want to shop
tax-free in Germany, as we have mentioned before (<RBLINK>20010310#6</RBLINK>).

A few years ago, I used to play Schafkopf with an employee of the
consulate in San Francisco, and that's why I know that there is an
answering machine on the premises that the officials have to check every few
hours, even on weekends. If a German is in trouble in America, the
consulate must help immediately. The German consulate in
San Francisco deserves five stars, I can only recommend it.

<em>Angelika</em> 
Recently, German passports started carrying biometric features,
which makes the document now cost 88 dollars, as I found out when I
applied for my new passport at the consulate. Of course,
Americans are to blame for the fuss with the biometric data, because
German passports issued after October 25, 2006, must have biometric
data if one wants to continue entering the USA as a German without a
tourist visa.

For Germans who possess the American Green Card, this rule does not
apply, but for new passport applications, biometric features are
already generally stored in chip form. Since these features mainly
involve facial recognition, passport photos are now subject to very
strict guidelines. The consulate provides an information sheet with
examples of how the photo should look. For example, the face in the
passport photo must not be smaller than 32 mm, but also not larger
than 36 mm. Ah!!! The photo looks so ridiculous now because nothing
but the head is in it. The friendly consulate employee was a bit
concerned because both my eyes are not exactly on the same level, but she
said that the Federal Printing Office in Berlin would accept it. By
the way, I read that facial recognition has a fairly high error rate.
Well, cheers to that.

By the way, you don't necessarily need to apply for a new passport if
your place of residence in the passport is no longer correct due to a
move. The consulate will update the place of residence in the
passport for free if you provide the previously mentioned
deregistration confirmation from the German registration office, as
well as a phone or electricity bill showing your current US address,
and the Green Card or American residence permit. Naturally, a small
"Change of Residence" form also needs to be filled out.

Your old passport is then simply clamped into an old-fashioned typewriter, and
the place of residence is corrected. My passport has had San
Francisco listed as my place of residence for quite some time now.
Since I often travel to Germany
and take advantage of tax-free shopping, I eventually got tired of
arguing with the customs officers in Germany. Despite my Green Card
and my California driver's license with an American address, they
would get upset about the still-German place of residence in my
passport. An officer at the airport in Bremen was particularly
stubborn once and said that anyone could make up a story.

@Z: Mandatory Health Insurance In Massachusetts

<pic images/cc.ps The book "Critical Condition" by Donald Bartlett and James Steele>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Sometimes things actually happen in this country that I never would
have thought possible in my life. At the beginning of April,
politicians (both Democrats and Republicans) decided to introduce a
health insurance mandate for their citizens in the state of
Massachusetts starting in July 2007.

A historic moment, as this has not existed in any American state
until now. As the health insurance debacle in the USA worsens, the
number of uninsured people keeps rising, and costs explode under poor
conditions, Massachusetts decided to take matters into its own hands.
The idea is: states require their drivers to have liability insurance
if they own a car. Why should it be different when it comes to one's
own health? Hats off, Massachusetts! First same-sex marriage
(<RBLINK>20040301#01</RBLINK>) and now mandatory health insurance!

The details regarding mandatory insurance are not yet fully
developed, but in principle, everyone who can afford health insurance
must obtain it. Citizens who belong to the poorer segments of the
population can access government-subsidized models, along with an
expansion of Medicaid (a healthcare program for low-income groups,
<RBLINK>20050319#9</RBLINK>).

Many are now hoping that other states will follow the good example
set by Massachusetts. Will I still live to see the day when health
insurance becomes mandatory across all of America? By the way, if any
of you want to read a good book about the dire state of the American
healthcare system, you should check out "Critical Condition" by
the two journalists Donald Bartlett and James Steele. However, the book has
only been published in English so far. In the prologue, the authors
describe, for example, that the pricing policy of health insurance
companies in America is akin to a supermarket charging each customer
a different price for a box of cornflakes. You can guess that the
authors lean more towards the liberal side and advocate for a
national mandatory insurance in America.

@Z: Five-Second-Rule

<pic images/schoko.ps Chocolate that has fallen on the carpet - to eat or not?>

<em>Michael</em> 
In our series "well-known American rules for children that no one
knows in Germany," today: the Five-Second Rule. If something edible,
like a piece of chocolate, falls on the floor, the clock starts
ticking: If you manage to retrieve the fallen piece within five
seconds, it can be eaten without worry. If more than five seconds
pass, it must go in the trash. The idea behind this is obvious: the
good piece allegedly cannot accumulate enough bacteria within five seconds to
be harmful to your health.

In the TV show Mythbusters (<RBLINK>20040301#6</RBLINK>),
which we have already discussed in a previous newsletter edition and which is now
even featured on German television on RTL2, this rule was once
scientifically examined. However, Adam Savage and Jamie Hyneman found
with bacterial cultures in test tubes that it makes no difference
whether an item lies on the ground for five seconds or longer. The
number of accumulated bacteria is approximately the same in both
cases. Nevertheless, the five-second rule is used by many children
and even some adults. Bon appetit! And even
<LINK>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Five_second_rule|Wikipedia knows about the five-second rule</LINK>.
It even says there that there is a German proverb 'Dreck macht
Speck!' which they claim means something similar. Ridiculous! And also according
to Wikipedia, in the dormitories of American universities, the
'10-Second Rule' applies to the constantly drunk and therefore
slower-reacting students -- you guessed it.

@Z: Good Manners

<em>Michael</em>
Some things in America haven't changed since the days of the Wild
West: the gentleman still holds the door open for the lady. This is
not only the case at highly formal events but is also common practice
in everyday life. It is also quite common for the first person in a
group to, for example, pull open a restaurant door and hold it open
while the rest of the group walks in.

When a gentleman and a lady enter a restaurant, the gentleman holds
the door open for the lady and lets her enter the establishment
first(!). This rule served, during the times of the Wild West, to
allow the gentleman to quickly count behind her back whether he had
enough money to take the lady out while she was walking through the
door. Because even in the very modern San Francisco, it is considered
completely unacceptable if the gentleman does not cover the entire
bill for a romantic table for two.

Or when, coming from the restaurant, two people get back into the
car: The gentleman first unlocks the passenger door for the lady from
the outside (!), holds it open, lets the lady get in, and then closes
the door before finally walking around the car to the driver's side
to get in himself. According to friends who are still active in the
dating scene, the lady's behavior in this situation can predict the
further course of the evening. If she unlocks the driver's door for
the gentleman from the passenger seat, "something more" might happen
that evening. However, if she waits for the gentleman to unlock his
door from the outside with the key, then nothing more than expenses
will come of it.

If you want to seriously start a relationship with someone, you go
out to dinner with them at most three times. "Lunch" is more of a
friendly affair and doesn't imply any romantic intentions, at most
vague exploratory attempts. "Dinner and a Movie" is a common dating
combination, and as a lady, you should be aware of the signals. Like
in baseball, these three evenings are referred to as "First Base,"
"Second Base," and "Third Base." At the latest on
<LINK>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Baseball_euphemism|second base</LINK>,
a little cuddling is required. If nothing
happens after the third time, the process will be abruptly terminated.
Actually, it is already considered an imposition if a lady allows
herself to be invited three times and then acts aloof. How
complicated it all is! It's a wonder that these people even manage to
reproduce.

@Z: Narnia Rap and West Coast Rebuttal

<pic images/narnia.ps Chris Parnell and Andy Samberg in the video "Lazy Sunday">

<em>Michael</em>
Here in the U.S., there is this TV show called "Saturday Night Live," which, as
the name suggests, is broadcast on Saturday evenings and is supposed
to be quite funny. At least it used to be, back in the days when
"Wayne's World" started on this very show and eventually became a
huge hit.

In a recently aired episode, a first-rate comedic moment shook the
nation: Two white comedians performed a rap piece in the style of
black gangsta rappers, but instead of drugs and gang shootings, it
was about a Sunday afternoon trip to see the children's movie
"Chronicles of Narnia." However, it was done with the slang, hand
gestures, and gangsta music typical of black gang circles. I've watched
<LINK>http://www.nbc.com/Video/videos/snl_1432_narnia.shtml|the video "Lazy Sunday"</LINK>
at least a hundred times and I could still crack up laughing every time,
lyrics are <LINK>http://www.narniafans.com/?id=682|here</LINK>.

It's not easy for inexperienced English speakers to understand, which
is why diligent people on the internet have transcribed it. And probably
because of the part 'Let's hit up Yahoo Maps to find the dopest
route' and 'Google Maps is the best! True that! Double true!' I saw
the video played over and over internally at work at Yahoo (and probably at
Google as well), we laughed and laughed!

The news about the video spread like wildfire on the internet, and
even people who hadn't watched the "Saturday Night Live" show got to
enjoy it through video-sharing sites like youtube.com. That was until
the lawyers from the TV network NBC intervened and prohibited its
distribution. Now, the video is available again on nbc.com, but it
doesn't work properly on many computers. Apparently, only slowpokes
work at NBC!

Anyway, the video triggered a so-called West Coast rebuttal. The
East and West Coasts of the USA don't see eye to eye, much like East
Frisians and Bavarians. And 'rebuttal' means something like
'counter-argument.' Two guys from Los Angeles made a
"Lazy Monday" video, which is even funnier! Two Jewish Californians from next door
who add a gangsta tone to the most mundane things. I could laugh
myself silly every time at the scene where Adam Stein casually tosses
aside the book "A Brief History of Time." And the coffeehouse chain
discount card "To get our 1% in!" is as typical Californian as the
banana bikes or the "Color me mine" store, where you can paint your
own clay creations. One laugh riot follows the next! And: Aren't we
living in a great time, where a few clever people can
shoot a rap video over the weekend without too much
cash and spread it all over the world? Who would want to live in
another time!

<pic images/wcr.ps Mark Feuerstein and Adam Stein in "Lazy Monday">

And the trend is now spreading around the world, "Lazy Sunday UK"
already exists in England, and soon there will probably be something
like "Lazy Tuesday, mein Herr" from Germany. Here in the newsletter,
you'll hear it, as always, first!

@Z: German and American Humor

<pic images/schmidt.ps Thanks to onlinetvrecorder.com, The Harald Schmidt Show is also available in San Francisco.>

<em>Michael</em>
German humor doesn't have a good reputation internationally.
Generally, Germans are considered to lack any ability to be funny.
People only enjoy the involuntary comedy of German stiffness. Take a
look at the latest <LINK>http://youtube.com/watch?v=mjgpzDJY1O0|Volkswagen ad</LINK>:
A crazy guy in a white coat appears in America, speaks English with
a fake German accent, and mimics American behaviors. Americans
find that funny.

TODO

German humor is not only underestimated within Europe, where the
Dutch and English often think all Germans are sullen, but especially
in the USA. There, Germans are admired for their diligence,
perseverance, and love of technical perfection, but a German comedian
would never make it onto television in the USA.

I find that this is not fair. Sure, there are a lot of popular
snoring humorists in Germany who ruin the German reputation. Over...
<LINK>http://onlinetvrecorder.com|onlinetvrecorder.com</LINK>
The translation of the text to English is:

Since recently, you can have German TV shows recorded
<LINK>http://onlinetvrecorder.com|onlinetvrecorder.com</LINK>
from the U.S. and then download them, and that's how I recently got to enjoy the Harald Schmidt Show.
It was so utterly unfunny that one could really believe a humor
drought had broken out in Germany. In comparison, Letterman, who is
considered slow-paced here, is a laugh bomb.

But when you look at products like the magazine "Titanic" (of course,
I still pay for an international subscription at the exorbitant price of 95 euros a year) or the
books by Max Goldt or Rattelschneck, you have to say that they can
also compete well internationally and often stand out in terms of
humor. Although "Titanic" has been steadily declining for decades,
columns like the "Humor Critique" by Robert Gernhardt (under the
pseudonym Hans Mentz) are still unmatched.

American humor tends to be on the lighter side. I hear this quite
often at work. You wouldn't believe how often the episode of The
Simpsons is quoted at the lunch table, where a bunch of German
backpackers invade the Simpsons' house. One of the most popular
quotes: "Number 37 of what's wrong with America: No national health
insurance. What is this, the age of Charlemagne?"

Or the topic of <LINK>http://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hasselhoff|David Hasselhoff</LINK>.
That third-rate actor is known from the series "Nightrider" in the eighties,
even topping the German charts with "I've been Looking for Freedom" for
months, has ruined the reputation of German musical taste in the USA
once and for all. David Hasselhoff is a complete laughingstock here
in the USA. Recently, in the TV series "The Office," someone who wore
their shirt a bit too unbuttoned was referred to as "Hasselhoff," and
it was hilariously funny! And even on Yahoo, I often have to endure
mockery when I talk about dim-witted American behaviors, and then
someone dryly brings up the topic of "Hasselhoff" as a
counterbalance. A particularly embarrassing
<LINK>http://youtube.com/watch?v=0OJCWak3BsA|Hasselhoff-Video</LINK>
from German television, which a Yahoo colleague from our lunch group
recently sent around, you are welcome to watch. And I have to live with
something like this! It's not easy.

@Z: Point Reyes

<pic images/rey1.ps Point Reyes: The Coast>

TODO

<em>Angelika</em> 
One of the unbeatable advantages of San Francisco is its location.
While other people go on vacation and spend hours on a plane to get
there, we can drive there in just a few hours. California is known
for its size and diversity, and many tourists don't have the time to
deviate from the classic routes. Most people drive along the "Highway
1," known as America's dream road, from San Francisco heading south
along the coast, which is certainly not to be underestimated, but
they sadly neglect the northern coast. As far as I'm concerned, it
can stay that way, as we don't want to be stuck behind lines of cars
during our trips. The stretch between San Francisco and Eureka
definitely makes my heart beat faster. There's nothing more beautiful
than driving the winding road on a cozy sunny day and enjoying the
breathtaking views of the sparkling Pacific. The north is rougher,
perhaps a bit sleepier, and you encounter more of the type of people
I like to call sea dogs. That's where my North German soul feels at
home. Sigh!

<pic images/rey2.ps Point Reyes: The Lighthouse>

If I long for steep cliffs, for deserted beaches where the wind
whistles and the waves crash onto the shore with roaring force, for
hiking trails that offer breathtaking views of the sea, then we set
off for...
<LINK>http://www.nps.gov/pore/index.htm|Point Reyes" is a proper noun
and does not need to be translated into English. It is the name of a
prominent cape and region in Marin County, California.</LINK>
Point Reyes National Seashore" is a peninsula-like nature reserve
located about 50 km north of San Francisco, extending over 20 km into
the ocean. We have mentioned Point Reyes in our newsletter before,
mostly because we often encounter some wildlife there, such as snakes
or whales. To reach the peninsula, you have to leave Highway 1, which
is why tourists usually speed past Point Reyes. Additionally, the
motto here is: Get out of the car and put on your hiking boots. We
owe it to former President John F. Kennedy that this coastal strip
was protected in 1962.

The dramatic landscape, as is often the case in California, is
closely connected to a fault line. This is the San Andreas Fault, the
same fault that runs through San Francisco. The ground here is
constantly moving: the peninsula shifts approximately 5 centimeters
further north each year, always along the San Andreas Fault.
Therefore, 7 million years ago, Point Reyes was about 120 km further
south and underwater. And since the Pacific and North American plates
rub against each other at the San Andreas Fault, there are frequent
tremors in Point Reyes as well.

Just this week, various celebrations were held in San Francisco to
commemorate the devastating earthquake that occurred 100 years ago,
on April 18, 1906. The friction along the San Andreas Fault was
responsible for that earthquake, as well as for the "Loma Prieta"
earthquake in 1989. A short, quite amusing loop trail ("Earthquake
Trail") near the visitor center in Point Reyes explains the events at
this fault line, with the added thrill that the walker is practically
moving along the San Andreas Fault. A split fence demonstrates how
far the surface was torn apart by the 1906 earthquake--more than 5
meters, as shown in illustration (#5)!

<pic images/rey3.ps (#5) Point Reyes: Replica of a fence that was
pulled apart during the 1906 earthquake>

For dedicated lighthouse enthusiasts, it is recommended to drive all
the way to the tip of the peninsula. The lighthouse sits on the last
rock before the open sea and can be reached by descending over 300
steps. During whale season, the area around the lighthouse is
considered the best vantage point for observing the migrating
California gray whales, which swim south from Alaska to Baja
California (Mexico) in mid-January and make the return journey north
in mid-March.

Whale watching is so popular in Point Reyes that visitors must use a
bus from the parking lot at "Drakes Beach" to reach the lighthouse on
weekends and holidays between the end of December and mid-April. One
weekend in January, Michael and I were able to see for ourselves that
the system works excellently. Although we didn't see any whales, even
though supposedly a handful were spotted that day, we did see
elephant seals with their young.

And if you've had enough of nature or are hungry, you can drive to
the town of "Point Reyes Station" to the "Station House Cafe." The
restaurant has a huge outdoor seating area that almost resembles a
beer garden. However, in nice weather, it's a real challenge to snag
a spot outside. And the servers in the place are the slowest in North
America. By the way, you'll find oysters on the menu everywhere
around Point Reyes. This is because there are four businesses in the
greater Point Reyes area that farm oysters. It doesn't get any
fresher than that!

@Z: Schlangengetier

<pic images/snake.ps Dangerous snake! The newsletter reporters in
danger!>

<em>Michael</em> 
Recently, I bought at
<LINK>http://rei.com|REI</LINK>
In San Francisco, I got new hiking boots. To break them in, we went
to the Marin Headlands despite the somewhat unsettled weather. After
about 7 kilometers on the trail, where a mountain biker called out to
us that he had seen a coyote, we were almost back at the car. As we
marched steadily, I suddenly noticed a frantic movement on the
ground. A snake slithered just centimeters past my shoes across the
path. Naturally, I performed quite the bear dance!

Angelika laughed naturally, obviously her childlike mind did not
grasp the seriousness of the situation! The snake did not even move
away afterwards, but continued to lurk on the path. That's why I
photographed the disgusting reptile with the telephoto lens at the
highest zoom setting. Just look at the colorful pattern. Definitely a
venomous snake, death occurs within seconds!

Got away again" or "Escaped again

The translation of "Angelika & Michael" to English is "Angelika &
Michael," as these are proper names and typically do not change when
translated between languages.

