San Francisco, 05-29-2006

<pic images/licplate.ps Alaska, home of the dirtiest cars in the world>

@Z: Alaska

<em>Michael</em> 
People have repeatedly raved to us about Alaska. In May, the time
finally came, and we went there for almost two weeks. However, Alaska
is huge, and since the terrain is partially very rough, we focused on
a tiny area near Anchorage.

How large Alaska is and what fraction we covered in two weeks is shown on the
map below.
We flew into Anchorage (A), drove to Kenai (K), down to Homer (H),
and over to Seward (S). In no time, there were 700 miles on the rental
car's odometer.

<pic images/amap.ps Satellite image of Alaska and the places we visited.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Already during the approach to Anchorage, we realized how sparsely
populated Alaska is. Looking out the window, we saw nothing but
endless expanse to the right: no houses or roads in sight. To the
left was Anchorage with its 260,000 inhabitants. It is the largest
city in Alaska, home to a whopping 40 percent of the total population.

All of Alaska has a mere 660,000 inhabitants and--by my
calculation--at least as many bears. Since Alaska is separated from
the other U.S. states by Canada, true locals refer to the "Lower 48" when
they talk about the continental USA. Hawaii, the 50th state located
far out in the ocean, is also left out by this reference.

<pic images/frozenlake2.ps Frozen lake on the route from Anchorage to Homer>

Alaska, unlike California, for example, did not come to the USA as a
conquest prize, but was sold by the Russians in 1867 to the Americans
like a piece of real estate for 7.2 million dollars. The poor
American Secretary of State, William Seward, who sealed the deal,
received harsh criticism at the time. It must have been a lot of
money back then, which people would have preferred to spend on "more
sensible" things. From today's perspective, the amount is, of course,
ridiculous; there are houses in San Francisco that cost that much.
The purchase was, as Michael noted several times during our vacation,
worth every cent.

<pic images/plane3.ps Private planes in Anchorage>

Large parts of the country are only accessible by plane. That's why
Anchorage has the largest seaplane base in the world. You can book
fishing tours to areas where you fly in by seaplane, fish for a few
hours, and then hopefully fly back with a big catch.

In a country where winter temperatures prevail for an average of 7
months a year, combined with only a few hours of daylight, tourism is
concentrated during the summer months of June to August. This leads to a
flood of tourists in the more easily accessible areas of Alaska,
which as a tourist you generally want to avoid.

The Kenai Peninsula we visited is said to be totally overwhelmed by
RVs in the summer. However, since the area is already accessible in
May, we decided to brave the perhaps slightly more unpredictable
weather. A golden decision. There were hardly any tourists around,
and everyone was delighted to see us, engaging in many a long chat
with us. The weather initially showed its cooler side, which actually
led Michael to buy a hat, probably his first since childhood. But
then the sun even shone from the sky. Hooray!

<pic images/rv.ps Motorhome in Homer>

<em>Michael</em> 
Due to the long and harsh winter, Alaskans are overjoyed in the
spring and run around in T-shirts and shorts at the first ray of
sunshine (even though it's still 40 degrees Fahrenheit). The best time to
travel in many areas is in May or September. During these months, it
might still be (or already be) a bit cold, but there are neither
swarms of mosquitoes nor tourists.

<pic images/anch2.ps Not a worldly city, but people go out until late at night: Anchorage>

In May, the sun rises in Alaska at 5:30 AM and doesn't set until
10:30 PM. And after that, it stays light for at least another hour.
This is great for tourists because you can hike until late in the
evening without the fear of not being able to finish the trail due to
encroaching darkness. People in Alaska also tend to eat dinner very
late. It's not uncommon to see full restaurants in Anchorage at ten
o'clock in the evening, whereas this is more of an exception in San
Francisco.

<em>Angelika</em> 
Anchorage is a typical American city that sprang up from the ground.
In addition to its beautiful location and some really good
restaurants, the city boasts a great bike path, named the "Tony Knowles
Coastal Trail." It is 11 miles long (about 17 kilometers), runs along
the water, and is well shielded from any car traffic.
<LINK>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tony_Knowles_%28politician%29|Tony Knowles</LINK>
is, by the way, not, as Michael had assumed,
a famous skateboarder (compare <LINK>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tony_hawk|Tony Hawk</LINK>),
but a former governor of Alaska.

<pic images/aanchbike2.ps Angelika on the bicycle on the Coastal Trail in Anchorage>

Michael and I rented two bicycles and pedaled away. The bike shop
guy also described a route to us, which made it a longer loop, and on the way back,
we passed by a huge airfield for small planes. Hats
off to this surprisingly good network of bike paths, which we found
not only in Anchorage but also later in the much smaller town of Homer. Who
would have expected that of Alaska?

@Z: Kayaking in the Arctic Ocean

<pic images/kayak2.ps Angelika is sitting in the front of our double kayak.>

<em>Michael</em> 
To experience the Arctic Ocean up close, we booked a kayak tour in
Homer, which was also attended by another vacationing couple from the
state of Arizona. Angelika and I got a double kayak with two entry
holes. Angelika sat in the front and I was in the back at the rudder,
each of us received a double paddle. Everyone had to put on a piece
of clothing that looked like a ballerina's tutu. This skirt is made of
waterproof neoprene is stretched over the entry hole after
(carefully) stepping into the floating kayak, so that no water splashes into
the interior of the kayak from above while paddling.

If a kayak capsizes in the ice-cold water and both rowers suddenly
find themselves upside down, you need to exit as quickly as possible
by pulling a loop that detaches the plastic cover from the entry
hole. Then the kayak guide quickly paddles over to help you turn and stabilize
the boat so you can carefully get back into the now water-filled
kayak. You then have to pump out the water on the spot using a hand
pump. This is, of course, a bit annoying in 40 degree cold water. Then
you paddle to shore and have to change out of your wet clothes and
into a ridiculously patterned dry overall that the kayak guide keeps
ready for such emergencies. Allegedly, you even have to wear it to
the pub where a tour that ended so abruptly will be celebrated! According
to our guide, who has been leading tours for many years, this has
happened exactly seven times under her supervision, mostly with
overconfident teenagers. Fortunately, we were spared such emergency
maneuvers, as the sea was in a good mood and calm that day.

<pic images/kayak3.ps On the left is our kayak guide, on the right are the other participants on the kayak tour.>

<pic images/vulcano.ps The volcano "Augustine" is puffing away near Homer.>

This naturally raises the question: How did the kayak pictures come
about? Or: How cool does someone have to be to put a Nikon D-70 in a
plastic bag, strap it to a kayak, and then take it out on the sea to
photograph with it on the shaky little boat? Answer: Pretty cool, the
vacation could have quickly become a lot more expensive.

<pic images/otter.ps The little sea otter seems to like the ice-cold water.>

<pic images/otter3a.ps You can get so close to the otters with the kayak.>

@Z: Commercial Fishermen

<pic images/fish.ps Dockworker in Seward>

<em>Michael</em> 
The part of the Pacific Ocean located between Alaska and Russia,
known as the Bering Sea, is home to gigantic fish populations.
According to the SeaLife Center in Seward (a kind of politically
correct aquarium and research center), the most commonly caught fish
is the
<LINK>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pollock|Pollock</LINK>,
an inconspicuous, relatively small marine creature from which
fish sticks and McDonald's Filet-O-Fish are made.

<pic images/kcrab.ps A "King Crab" in the aquarium of Seward>

The town of Seward is one of the largest hubs for fresh fish; this is
where the fishing boats arrive with their catch. Dockworkers pack the
sometimes astonishingly large fish into boxes, quickly load them
onto trucks that are already waiting, and off they go. Curiously,
hardly any goods remain in town. Only a tiny shop sold fresh
fish, and we had to ask around for a long time before we found it.
When we accidentally entered through the back door, I saw a box of
herrings and was already cheering because herrings are quite hard to
come by in the USA (except at Ikea). However, a grumpy fisherman
pointed out to me that the herrings in the trough were not suitable
for human consumption but were used as "bait" to catch larger fish!
We bought halibut cheeks (the fatty cheeks of flatfish) and a few
"King Crab Legs," 15 inch long meaty crab legs. The cabin we stayed at
had a gas grill, on which I didn't let the
delicacies overcook (as unfortunately happens in many American
restaurants) but prepared them masterfully. The whole thing was quite
expensive ($50 for the fish) but very delicious.

@Z: Homesteading in the Wilderness

<pic images/blhouse.ps Houses near Homer, Alaska>

<em>Angelika</em> 
As we paddled around in our kayaks in the waters of Kachemak Bay, we
noticed that here and there small, quite rustic cabins appeared
behind the treeline. Naturally, we immediately thought of summer
cottages, but we learned from our kayak guide Alison that some of
them were originally built as part of what is known as "homesteading."

To settle the western United States, Congress under
President Abraham Lincoln decided in 1862 that every American who was
at least 21 years old could claim 160 acres of
land for a fee of 18 dollars. The goal was to make the land usable.
After five years, the settler could call the land their own. They
only had to prove that they lived on the land, had built a cabin, and
cultivated the land.

<pic images/dog1.ps Dog in Homer>

The program was finally discontinued in 1976, with only Alaska
receiving an extension until 1986. Despite this generous land
allocation, only 1% of the land in Alaska is privately owned. 60%
belongs to the federal government (e.g., the national parks), 20% to
the state of Alaska, and the rest was returned to the indigenous
people in 1971.

We noticed that the scattered little houses along the country roads
all have one thing in common: The property around the house looks
like a mess. Scrapped cars, old refrigerators, and washing machines.
One gets the impression that it is customary to set up a spare parts
depot in the garden when acquiring a new device or vehicle.

<pic images/yard.ps Junk around the house (in Homer.)>

<pic images/yard1.ps Junk around the house (in Ninilchik.)>

Unfortunately, even in the more populated areas of Alaska, there is
no escape from the obligatory "McDonald's," "Safeway," and
"Starbucks." Apparently, no one can resist the relentless American desire to
place an unsightly shopping center in even the most breathtaking
landscapes.

On the other hand, you encounter individualists in Alaska like in no
other American state, who want to fulfill their dream of living in
the last remaining wilderness. That's why Alaska is also known as the "Last
Frontier." Our kayak guide Alison, for example, was originally from
New York City and now lives somewhat off the beaten path from Homer
in a house without running water, which can only be reached on foot by a
half-hour walk. During our kayak tour, we asked her what vacation
means to her, since she already does for a living what others seek as
an adventure during their time off. She replied that she likes to
rent a room in a good hotel in Anchorage to take a full bath.

<pic images/shackv.ps The bedroom view from our cottage in Homer.>

Another interesting story we heard from the landlady of our little
house in Seward: Many years ago, she worked in a candy store in New
York City and came across a postcard that showed Alaska. She said
that from that moment on, she knew she would live there one day.
After separating from her first husband, she packed her things and,
with her dog in tow, drove endless roads all the way to Alaska. She
immediately liked the area around Seward, so she decided to use her
private retirement savings (the so-called 401k, <RBLINK>20030801#6</RBLINK>)
to start investing before retirement, buying land and setting up
log cabins on it, which she now rents out to tourists. The man who
built the cabins for her also became her new love. By the way, when
she moved to Alaska with all her belongings, she was already over 40!
Only in America.

<pic images/atv.ps A young lad passes the time with an all-terrain vehicle (ATV).>

However, romantic notions about the wilderness of Alaska can
certainly also lead to disaster. There are always people who are
afflicted by the Robinson Crusoe syndrome and believe that a hermit's
life beyond any civilization in the wilderness would be easy to
manage.

The majority of locals in Alaska consider these guys to be rather
crazy and don't speak well of them. If you want to read a very
interesting book on this topic, you should check out 'Into the Wild'
by Jon Krakauer. 
Krakauer tells the true story of Christopher McCandless, who hiked
alone into the Alaskan wilderness in 1992 and whose body was found by
hunters after several months.

@Z: Bushlines

<em>Michael</em> 
Many households in Alaska which are somewhat remote, still do not
have a telephone. To deliver messages to these people, there are the
so-called "Bushlines," lines of text that the radio host of a
local AM station broadcasts into the "bush" (the wilderness) a few
times a day, each time on the hour.

So that personal messages and passionate declarations of love can be
sent through the airwaves without the whole world knowing, many
recipients use code names. It is reportedly a popular pastime to
listen to the Bushlines and guess who is flirting with whom.
Exclusively in the newsletter, we present to you a current
<LINK>http://usarundbrief.com/61/images/bushlines.mp3|Radio recording of the Bushlines</LINK>.
As you can see, some people use the
service probably for nostalgic reasons -- if someone gives out an
internet URL, it's quite obvious that the recipient also has a phone,
right?

@Z: Alaska Permanent Fund

<pic images/puffins.ps The Sweet Puffins>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Anyone who has lived in Alaska for at least one year receives money
for doing so. The "Alaska Permanent Fund" makes it possible. It pays an
annual dividend to the residents of Alaska, regardless of their age.

The background: In 1976, a referendum led to an amendment of Alaska's
constitution, requiring that 25% of the state's revenue from the
extraction of natural resources (mainly oil in Alaska) be deposited
into a fund and invested. This fund now holds 33 billion dollars. The
amount of the annual dividend payout is determined by the return on
investment. On average, it ranges from 600 to 1500 dollars per
person. However, the year 2000 was exceptional, with nearly 2000
dollars per person! Politicians repeatedly attempt to change the use
of the fund, suggesting that instead of distributing the money to
everyone, it should be used for community purposes such as funding
schools and hospitals. However, the population strongly opposes this.
Locals told us that if a politician campaigns with this unpopular
idea, they pay dearly at the polls. 

However, nowadays big money is no longer to be made from oil in Alaska, as the
oil fields at Prudhoe Bay are drying up. Bush and his associates, as
well as some politicians in Alaska, want to open up the unique
"Arctic National Wildlife Refuge" in the far north of Alaska for oil
drilling. Fortunately, these efforts have so far been thwarted by
various political maneuvers.

@Z: Glacier Tours

<pic images/hike2.ps On the way to Glacier Lake, after the water taxi dropped us off in a remote area.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
In Alaska, the journey is truly the destination, as often the real
challenge is simply getting somewhere in the first place. There are
only few roads in Alaska, but small aircraft, such as the charming
seaplanes, as well as boats and ferries, prove to be the preferred
means of transportation. I also read in the travel guide that only a
few areas in Alaska have well-marked hiking trails. However, in the
area we visited, the signage was exemplary. Hmm! It only becomes problematic when
the winter snow knocks down the signs and trees, and the team of
volunteers hasn't yet set out before the summer season to clear the
hiking trail. It also seems that people in Alaska have a different
way of assessing obstacles.

<pic images/two.ps On the water taxi>

We wanted to hike the "Glacier Lake Trail" in Kachemak Bay State Park
near Homer. To do this, we first had to take a water taxi (i.e., a
boat) to take us from Homer to the other side of the bay, where it
would drop us off at the start of the trail and pick us up five hours
later at the end of the trail at another small bay.

The water taxis are really convenient, but not exactly cheap. We paid
65 dollars per person to get to our hiking trail. The owner (a man
named Mako) of "Mako's Water Taxi" kindly informed us that although
the hiking trail had not been officially cleared this year, a sign
had dropped to the ground at a junction, and we would have to climb
over some fallen trees. Oh, and there was still a bit of snow here
and there. But no problem at all.

<pic images/mwander.ps Michael on the hiking trail>

And I tell you, we climbed and climbed. Since the sun was shining
wonderfully warm, the hard snow on the path had partly turned into a
small stream, but our waterproof turbo hiking boots held up. The
reward was the beautiful, partially still frozen glacial lake with
the Grewingk Glacier in the background, which we didn't have to share
with anyone.

The day before, Michael had obtained the rough coordinates of the
individual waypoints from the internet and saved them on his portable
GPS system after some wild coordinate transformations. This way, we
always knew how far it was to the next junction, which was very
reassuring.

<pic images/glaclake.ps At the destination: Glacier Lake>

As we were almost at our agreed meeting point with the water taxi, we
once again climbed over a huge conifer tree and suddenly, the path
was no longer visible. Michael walked a few steps ahead and stood in
the dense undergrowth. No path in sight. After a few uncomfortable
minutes, I decided to simply climb back over the tree, because we had
seen the path before the tree. And indeed, the second attempt was
successful. Shortly afterward, the water taxi picked us up at the
agreed destination. During the hike, Michael had already devised a
scenario of what we would do if the taxi didn't come. I, on the other
hand, preferred to focus on the danger of bears.

<pic images/wtaxi.ps The water taxi will pick us up again at the agreed meeting point on time.>

@Z: Bears

<pic images/bear2.ps A black bear, about a hundred meters away.>

<em>Michael</em> 
As mentioned, it is quite normal to encounter bears in Alaska. They
are not to be trifled with. Usually, they will immediately run away
if they see humans, especially if the humans are tall and/or in
groups. However, this assumes that you don't startle the bear, as they
don't like that and will become grumpy. For example, if you turn a
blind corner and suddenly, a bear is standing in front of you. That's
why you should constantly be making noise, and if that gets on your
nerves, you can wear a small bell ("Bear Bell") that constantly
jingles softly, informing bears in the vicinity of the hiker's
position and preventing any surprises. The bear usually avoids
confrontations widely if it can do so without effort. However, bears
hibernate during the winter months and are quite groggy in the head
for some time after waking up in the spring.

<pic images/bearshit.ps Fresh bear droppings on the hiking trail!>

<pic images/beartrace.ps Bear paw print on the hiking trail>

Anyone who has seen the excellent film "Grizzly Man" (directed by
Werner Herzog) knows that bears, if things go really wrong, can
indeed kill and eat humans. There are two different types of bears:
the black "Black Bear" and the brown "Grizzly." They can weigh up to
half a ton and reach up to 10 feet in height when they stand upright.
The brown Grizzly is more predictable; if it does attack, you should
play dead, and it will usually leave you alone. The "Black Bear,"
however, is more aggressive and may pursue hikers, who then have to
use all sorts of tricks (make themselves look tall, put a backpack on
their head, scream, wave their arms) to scare it off. If the "Black
Bear" attacks, you should never play dead but instead punch it in the
snout. Or, as a local explained to us: "A Grizzly will kill you. A
Black Bear will kill you and then eat you.

<pic images/bearbell.ps A bear bell.>

<pic images/bearspray.ps "Counter Assault", the anti-bear spray.>

For self-defense in the extremely rare case of an emergency, one can
either carry along a double-barreled shotgun with a giant caliber
("bear slug," see Karl May) or a pepper spray specifically made for
bear defense with the martial name "Counter Assault." However, the
spray is insanely expensive ($37.95), but fortunately, the
mountaineering supermarket REI in Anchorage had it on special offer
($24.95). Allegedly, it works up to 30 feet away. But if the wind
blows in the wrong direction, the spray can turn into a boomerang.

<pic images/goat.ps Bear food: Mountain goats>

We had the canister unlocked and always ready during our hikes, but
fortunately, we never had to use it, as no bear surprised us on our
paths. However, during a boat tour, we saw an estimated ten (!)
different black bears in various locations, some even on quite steep
mountain slopes. These slopes are also frequented by mountain goats,
the bears' favorite food. At least until the salmon start jumping.
Even experienced hikers confirmed to us that it frequently happens
that bears cross the path, and the lady who rented us a cottage
included a bear booklet and wrote in large letters that we should
read it before undertaking any hikes.

@Z: Melting Glaciers

<pic images/glac4.ps "Exit Glacier">

<em>Angelika</em> 
In the city of Seward, we were surprised to find that visitors to the
"Kenai Fjords National Park" can reach the so-called "Exit" Glacier
with minimal effort. The glacier is truly within reach, less than a
mile from the parking lot. But Alaska remains Alaska. As we
stood in front of the glacier, there were a few threatening rumbles
from within, as a small warning that we were standing before an
active glacier that should not be underestimated.

Global warming is quite clearly visible there, by the way. The
glacier has been retreating further and faster in recent years; in
1970, it was almost at the parking lot, about half a mile from
the point where it ends today. In fifty years, it probably won't
exist anymore.

<pic images/glac.ps Glacier ice is actually blue.>

We could also clearly see that glaciers are actually blue in some
places. According to a sign posted at the national park, this is
because the snow masses from which they are formed are compressed
over the years into a dense ice mass that absorbs all light except
for the high-energy blue light, so that glacier ice
looks like the candy of the same name!

The so-called moraines, which are rocks that have been ground up and
pushed forward by the glacier, were also clearly visible, and you
could even walk around on them. My old geography teacher would have
been thrilled!

@Z: Killer Whales Up Close and Personal

<pic images/orca3.ps Killer Whale>

<em>Michael</em> 
Of course, you shouldn't think that you can just sail around on a
boat and spot a whale. That's very rare, even in Alaska. Sometimes,
on a full-day tour, you might only see a few miserable sea otters.
However, we were lucky twice: once on the way back with the water
taxi from the kayaking tour and another time on a full-day boat tour.
There were about a dozen people on a medium-sized ship, and I was
staring at the water's surface when I suddenly noticed a few huge
tail fins in the distance, which quickly disappeared again. Since I
was already familiar with whales from California, I shouted, "Whales,
10 o'clock!!" (for non-nautical folks: "Whales, 60 degrees to the
left!").

<pic images/orca2.ps Excursion Ship and Killer Whale>

The skipper slowed the engine and steered the boat in the
indicated direction, and after 30 seconds, about 7 killer whales
(also known as orcas) appeared, each at least 15 to 25 feet
long. They swam towards the boat, dove underneath it, and then
slapped their tail fins on the water. People were thrilled, and a
gentleman from Texas patted me on the shoulder at least five times in
a row, and everyone praised the "Good eye, good eye" of the young man
from San Francisco.

@Z: Moose

<pic images/eagle4.ps Bald eagle at the harbor entrance of Homer>

<em>Angelika</em> 
In Alaska, there are now not only bears and lots of bald eagles (the
national emblem of the USA) to admire, but also moose that are
happily hopping through the landscape.

Especially when there is still snow in the higher elevations, they
come close to human dwellings in the lower regions. However,
moose are difficult to spot in a landscape that has not yet turned
green, as their brown fur blends perfectly with the surroundings. But
since I had often visited Finland in my early youth, I knew what we
needed to look out for.

<pic images/moose1.ps A moose on a forest path near Anchorage>

On the very first day, as we rode along the Coastal Trail in
Anchorage with our rented bicycles, I spotted a huge moose leisurely
nibbling on some branches at the edge of the forest. However, we were
just speeding downhill, and I braked a bit abruptly, which not only
forced Michael to make a sudden braking maneuver himself but also led
to a few comments about my reckless riding style.

Moose do look somewhat innocently silly, which probably tempts some
Alaska tourists to get too close to them, but we kept a respectful
distance when we saw the animal's long legs. A six-year-old could
have easily walked underneath them. While Michael was photographing
the moose, some cyclists pedaled past us, and Michael gestured wildly
to them that there was a moose in the forest. But they didn't even
stop; they were probably locals. After two weeks of vacation and
several more moose sightings, we also understood: spotting a moose is
quite normal in Alaska.

Ice-cold greetings!

Angelika & Michael
