San Francisco, 10-11-2006

@Z: Santa Fe, New Mexico

<pic images/chili.ps Santa Fe: Chili peppers hung up to dry>

<em>Angelika</em> 
We have, as is well known, set ourselves the goal of eventually
visiting every state in the USA. We had so far neglected New Mexico,
probably because it doesn't have the spectacular national parks that
you usually find in the Southwest of the USA. But after several
friends and acquaintances raved about New Mexico and especially Santa
Fe, and immediately added that it was "completely different"
to the rest of the USA was, there was no stopping us.

Santa Fe is not only the oldest state capital in the USA, but it is
also situated a whopping 7,000 feet (approximately 2,100 meters)
above sea level. The low air pressure there causes the potato chips bags in
the supermarkets to amusingly expand like balloons. Despite having only 65,000
residents, it boasts not only surprisingly good restaurants and
various museums but also a sea of galleries, especially on Canyon
Road.

<pic images/gallery.ps One of the countless galleries in Santa Fe>

Like San Francisco, the entire city is characterized by a liberal
atmosphere. And since Santa Fe was originally ruled by the Spanish
conquerors, it even has a real old marketplace (called a plaza) and
many small, narrow streets.

<pic images/adobe.ps Adobe house in Santa Fe>

<pic images/sfearc.ps Typical round adobe structure>

The best part, however, are the adobe houses that dominate the
cityscape, as the city has a regulation that new houses must also be
built in the old adobe style. Adobe means "clay," and the houses are
made of clay bricks (made from clay, water, and straw), which are
first stacked into a wall. Then the mason applies a reddish-brown
plaster, spreading it generously and padding all the corners so that
the whole thing looks like an upholstered sofa.

<pic images/butze.ps By the fireplace in the hut>

Great insulation is guaranteed with this type of construction. Our
vacation cottage was also built in the adobe style and had the
traditional fireplace, called a kiva.

<pic images/sfe1.ps The brave newsletter reporter in the high desert landscape>

The area around Santa Fe offers narrow canyons and vast high
desert landscapes with gigantic views stretching to the horizon.
There is even an alpine ski resort, called "Taos Ski Valley."

<pic images/lv.ps Las Vegas has also seen better days.>

Even a small town called "Las Vegas" can be found here, although it
has nothing in common with the gambling paradise in Nevada. This
small Las Vegas is famous for its many historic buildings.
Unfortunately, the little town lacks money, and many buildings are in
urgent need of renovation. However, Las Vegas exudes the old charm of
the Wild West, and those who appreciate that will feel right at home
there.

In the mentioned ski resort "Taos Ski Valley," there is another
curiosity, namely a Bavarian restaurant high up on the mountain. In
winter, guests reach it on skis, while in summer, one can drive up a
long, steep, unpaved mountain road to the restaurant's parking lot.
And since, as Germans in exile, we tend to adopt the most peculiar
habits, we gladly admit that we did not shy away from this journey to
enjoy a schnitzel and a good beer.

In general, we drove on many unpaved roads in New Mexico to reach
remote parks for hiking. Anyone who likes bizarre rock formations and
narrow canyons should visit the so-called Tent Rocks (officially
<LINK>http://www.nm.blm.gov/recreation/albuquerque/kasha_katuwe.htm|Kasha-Katuwe Tent Rocks National Monument</LINK>),
don't miss it. The formations resemble tents, hence the name.

@Z: Indian Reservations

<pic images/pueblo4.ps Indian jewelry is sold here.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Anyone who has ever studied American history cannot avoid the tragic
chapter of the extermination and oppression of Native Americans.
To this day, Native Americans fight for recognition, equality, and
the return of their land. The hunger of white settlers for land and
natural resources in the 19th century led to the systematic
displacement and relocation of Native Americans to reservations,
which were mostly established in completely remote, less fertile
areas (in other words: in the desert).

<pic images/casino.ps Indian casinos along the main road>

I will never forget how, in 1987, we drove for the first time through
the vastness of the American Southwest, repeatedly passing Indian
reservations: A road that cuts straight through the desert landscape,
stretching all the way
to the horizon, with small, very basic huts scattered across the
landscape on either side, which had seen better days. On the way to
Monument Valley, we had picked up a Native American hitchhiker who lived
on the reservation. He wanted to go to the nearest supermarket, which
was a few miles away in the middle of nowhere. Even back then, I
wondered how the Native Americans could survive in such isolation
without any significant infrastructure, and I was no longer surprised
by the high percentage of unemployed, alcohol-dependent, and those
living on the brink of existence in the reservations.

During our tours through New Mexico, we constantly drove through
various Indian reservations. Road signs, similar to town signs,
indicate when an Indian reservation begins and when you leave it.
This is quite relevant because Indian reservations are self-governed,
and the tribal government has limited legal authority. For example, a
ban on alcohol within the reservation is not uncommon. We also
frequently saw cars with the inscription "Tribal Police" speeding
around on the roads.

As an observant tourist in America, you might have wondered why there
is now a casino on almost every Indian reservation. The Native
Americans take advantage of the special legal status on the
reservation and operate casinos where everyone (including non-Native
Americans) can play to their heart's content. This brings in good
money and has become a stable source of income for the Native
Americans living on the reservation. Often, the opening of a new
casino is met with loud protests from the population. I find this
quite hypocritical: First, the land is taken from the Native
Americans, they are confined to a godforsaken reservation, and then
people complain that the Native Americans don't make anything of
their lives. But as soon as they manage to establish something
themselves and succeed, it's not acceptable either.

In 1987, the United States Supreme Court confirmed that Native
Americans are allowed to operate gambling activities on their
reservations independently of state regulations. However, in 1988,
Congress enacted the "Indian Gaming Regulatory Act," which specifies
exactly how this should be conducted. It grants the states partial
input. Generally, casinos on Native American reservations can only be
opened if gambling is not fundamentally prohibited in the respective
state.

In my youthful naivety, I probably watched too many "Winnetou and Old
Shatterhand" shows on TV, because I used to think that most Native
Americans roamed the vast land and set up their tents wherever there
was enough to hunt. As is well known, one should not rely on Karl
May's stories, which stem more from his imagination than historical
facts, when it comes to Native Americans and North America.

<pic images/ruins1.ps Bandelier National Monument: Ruins of an ancient pueblo>

Our trips in New Mexico also dispelled the romantic notion of
Indians riding through the prairie. In what is now the state of New
Mexico, the so-called Pueblo Indians lived in villages and practiced
agriculture since ancient times. Well-preserved ruins, such as those
in Bandelier National Monument, prove this. We even climbed up
various ladders to the Ceremonial Cave, a rock ledge high up in the
mountain, where the Indians lived for reasons that are inexplicable
to me--after all, the climb must not have been easy back then.

<pic images/ruins2.ps Even more old walls>

@Z: Taos Pueblo

<em>Angelika</em>
But I digress, because I actually wanted to talk about the
still-inhabited Native American village "Taos Pueblo." By the way,
the term "Pueblo" comes from Spanish and means "village." The Spanish
colonial rulers brought the term to New Mexico.

<pic images/cave1.ps Native American woman on her way to her cave.>

Taos Pueblo has about 2,000 Native Americans living there, with approximately
50 families residing in the three-story, 1,000-year-old adobe houses.
To this day, these houses have no running water or electricity.
However, the rest of the village inhabitants are living in modern houses.
There is also a Catholic church on the village square, which might
surprise you. The blame, of course, lies with the aforementioned
Spanish conquerors who imposed their Catholic faith on the Native
Americans. Even today, the Native Americans living in this area are
generally Catholic.

<pic images/church.ps Catholic Indian Church in Taos Pueblo.>

If by chance you ever find yourselves wandering around New Mexico,
don't miss "Taos Pueblo." The architecture of the village is
absolutely impressive, and a sense of tradition and history surrounds
you at every turn. Incidentally, UNESCO agrees, as it added Taos
Pueblo to the World Heritage List in 1992.

<pic images/pueblo3.ps Even for taking photos, you have to pay in the village!>

A bit unusual, however, is the fact that tourists can only enter the
village if they pay an entrance fee of 10 dollars. This is common
practice in most Native American villages in New Mexico. Taos Pueblo
is also officially a Native American reservation and therefore
self-governed.

If you want to take photographs in Taos Pueblo, you pay an additional
5 dollars per camera. Of course, this is how the Native Americans
make their living, and that's okay, but at first, we felt a bit
inhibited and like intruders. However, the village residents were
very friendly and open-minded. Not all areas are accessible to
tourists. In the ancient adobe houses, many Native Americans have
small shops where they sell their crafts, such as jewelry, wood
carvings, and woven goods.

<pic images/oven.ps An Indigenous woman is baking bread in the oven.>

The highlight, however, was the delicious baked goods that were
offered for sale, traditionally baked in an adobe oven, which is
usually located outside the house and looks like a large anthill with
a hole.

In Taos Pueblo, we also noticed that many businesses advertised using
the term "Indian." Normally, in "politically correct" circles, the
term "Native American" is used when referring to the indigenous
peoples of America (<RBLINK>20020201#8</RBLINK>).
The tour guide informed us: In the state of New Mexico, most Native
Americans find it perfectly acceptable to use the term "Indian." Even
museums that deal with the history or art of Native Americans are
called, for example, "Museum of Indian Arts and Culture."
Nevertheless, as a tourist, I would advise you to stick with "Native
American," as you can't go wrong with that. By the way, in New
Mexico, white people are often referred to as "Anglos," while in the
rest of the country, "Caucasian" is considered correct.

@Z: Hetch Hetchy

<pic images/hetchpipe.ps The water pipeline from Yosemite to San Francisco>

<em>Michael</em> 
We have often mentioned that it won't rain a drop in San Francisco
between March and October. This raises the question: Where do the city
and the surrounding areas get enough fresh water to survive?

<pic images/gg2.ps Die Marin Headlands and der Golden Gate Bridge im Winter ...>
<pic images/sfwin2.ps ... and the meadows are also a lush green ...>

Everything that is green in San Francisco is being watered in the summer.
The palm trees on Dolores Street and the many green parks would be
unthinkable without sprinkler systems. Areas that are not
artificially irrigated, such as Bernal Heights Hill or the expansive
Marin Headlands north of the Golden Gate Bridge, completely dry out
during the summer months and turn brown.

<pic images/sfsum.ps ... but in the summer, everything that is not artificially irrigated withers.>

Approximately 130 miles east of San Francisco lies Yosemite National
Park, an alpine-like landscape with great climbing opportunities,
where the two intrepid newsletter reporters have also roamed. At the
western end is the so-called Hetch Hetchy Valley. "Hetch Hetchy"
refers to a type of grass with edible seeds in the language of the
Sierra Miwok Indians who once lived there. After the earthquake in
1906, the city of San Francisco demanded water rights in the park to
build a dam, to flood the Hetch Hetchy Valley, and to create a water
reservoir.

The conservationists, led by John Muir, were up in arms. A seven-year legal
battle ensued, and in the end, a federal court issued a decisive ruling in the
"Raker Act." The O'Shaughnessy Dam was constructed, and the Tuolumne River,
flowing into the valley, filled it to the brim with water. This precious water
is delivered to San Francisco and the surrounding Bay Area through a complex
system of pipelines and tunnels.
On the <LINK>http://www.creatf.com/hetchy/watershedtour.html|website of the waterworks</LINK> you can see exactly how the whole thing works.

<pic images/hetch-hetchy-openstreetmap.ps Location of the O'Shaughnessy Dam, which impounds water for San Francisco in Yosemite National Park.>

In the summer, the basin gradually empties, but the winter rain
refills the reservoir. A few years ago, there wasn't much rain in the
winter, and as a result, there was a water shortage in the summer. At
that time, recommendations were issued to shower only once a day and
to water the lawn only in the late evening.

@Z: Pick Up Soccer

<pic images/trikot.ps The German national team in San Francisco>

<em>Michael</em>
During my youth, I famously spent countless hours playing street soccer
in Germany. And during my studies in Munich, there was a soccer game
every day at the so-called ZHS (Central University Sports), where you
could just show up without registering and play.

The USA is indeed a diaspora for soccer, and it's not that easy to
find people who can actually play the game. But when our 17-year-old
nephew recently came to visit, I remembered that there is often a
so-called "pick-up game" happening in the nearby Dolores Park. So one
evening after work, we ran down there and just joined in the game.

Initially, we noticed that an astonishing number of women were
playing. And the skill level of the men is, um, not exactly
world-class. But it was very fun, and I learned that nowadays people
come together for casual soccer through the internet: on the site
<LINK>http://socster.com</LINK> you
first select your region, then one of the registered locations,
and you can already arrange in discussion forums when and how many
people will come together.

<pic images/socster.ps Organize pickup games over the Internet: socster.com>

That works excellently, and last Tuesday I joined a small game,
which was really great! The mix was typical too: noticeably many
exiled Germans, Italians, and French. Of course, I play in the German
national team jersey, which I bought many years ago during a visit to
Germany, so people know where I stand.

@Z: Traditional Barbers

<pic images/barber.ps The "Barber's Pole", the sign for a barbershop>

<em>Michael</em> 
When an American man needs a haircut, he goes to what is called a
"barber." These are usually tiny shops, and inside there is a red
upholstered leather chair with a footrest. An ancient, life-worn man
holds scissors and a razor in his hands. In San Francisco, there is
one who even plays the saxophone in his shop when there are no customers. Of
course, you don't make an appointment with the barber; you just drop
in.

A barbershop can be recognized from the outside by the so-called
<LINK>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Barber%27s_pole|Barber's Pole</LINK>.
It's a vertically standing cylinder with white-red-blue striped spirals.
The history of this symbol can be traced back to medieval times,
when barbers performed bloodletting on their patients using leeches.
And it wasn't that long ago that barbers also pulled teeth or
performed minor surgeries with whiskey anesthesia.

The white stripes of the cylinder symbolize bandages, the red ones
blood, and there are different interpretations for the blue stripes:
either venous blood (as opposed to red arterial blood) or simply to
distinguish between surgeons (red) and barbers (blue). Or simply to
complete the American national colors, but there's no certainty about
any of this.

The difference between a barber and a hairdresser is that the barber
also shaves beards, although this is rarely requested nowadays.
Additionally, the barber is relatively inexpensive; sometimes a
haircut costs less than 10 dollars! However, the barber does not wash
hair, as that seems to be reserved for the fancy salons.

<pic images/barber-shop.ps A typical American barbershop.>

By the way, there is this budget chain called "Supercuts," which are
hairdresser establishments that are also quite cheap and trim both men's and
women's hair. However, Supercuts is the McDonald's of hairdressers,
and I've heard that the training period for the staff is about one
week. So, the quality of the haircut can vary.

My barber in the Italian neighborhood of North Beach is from Puerto
Rico and lives in the South American neighborhood of Mission. He not
only cuts my hair and shaves the sideburns with a real razor, but
after the work is done, if he's in a good mood, he also straps a
vibrating device to the back of his hand to massage my scalp with
his now trembling hand. Very pleasant! However, if you talk during
this, your voice vibrates amusingly.

<pic images/barber-bill.ps The barber gives the customer a traditional men's haircut.>

A tip of about 20% is given at the hairdresser. In an expensive
women's salon, that can quickly be $20-$30! And just before
Christmas, as custom dictates, this amount is to be doubled. That
makes the wallet groan!

@Z: Top Product

<pic images/hoover.ps The super vacuum cleaner "Hoover Fusion">

<em>Michael</em> 
Recently, someone asked on an internal Yahoo mailing list what the
best vacuum cleaner currently available might be. Don't laugh! This
kind of question comes up often, and it's actually very helpful to
get everyday tips from reasonably educated people. The popular
answer: the Dyson. It's one of those modern, futuristic-looking
vacuum cleaners that supposedly unleashes such infernal suction
power that it outshines every device that has come before it. One
Dyson model even has the fitting name "Animal." However, it comes
with a price: $400 and up.

We are, as you know, still letting our Roomba vacuum robot
(<RBLINK>20060215#6</RBLINK>) do the vacuuming at home,
but sometimes you spill something or want a deep clean,
that's when you need a proper vacuum nozzle. Spending $400 on a
device that you only use once a month is, of course, absurd. So when
I found out that the well-established vacuum company Hoover produces
a Dyson clone for $110, I quickly ordered it online and had it sent
to my office.

And this thing is truly phenomenal! I have no idea if the Dyson is
even better, but at a quarter of the price, I'm happy to accept that
uncertainty. I vacuum a part of the apartment every day because it's
so much fun!

@Z: Pacific Gas and Electric (PG\&E)

<pic images/pge.ps PG&E gives a discount.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Last week, our electricity bill from PG&E (Pacific Gas and Electric)
arrived, and I was pleasantly surprised to see that it was
significantly lower than usual. Then I noticed the attached note,
which kindly explained that every customer would retroactively
receive a 15% discount called the "Heat Storm Bill Credit" for their July
gas and electricity bill. It went on to say that an unusual
heatwave had gripped California in July, leading to higher
electricity consumption (keyword: air conditioning) and therefore higher bills for
many households. Huh? I had always thought that we live in an era of
global warming and that saving electricity, not wasting it, should be
rewarded. PG&E had generally adhered to this principle in the past.
During previous heatwaves, consumers were encouraged to reduce their
power usage, for example, by turning down the air conditioning,
to receive a discount later for significant savings.

In San Francisco, by the way, we don't pay a monthly installment for
our power usage; instead, we pay for the amount we actually consume.
Every month, the PG&E man comes by to read the meter. He carries a huge
bunch of keys to open various garage doors or similar to access the
meters. Often, the meters are also mounted on the exterior walls of
houses. Just before the new year, a calendar is always included with
the bill, indicating when the meter will be read. This system
naturally leads to higher bills in cold months when heating is necessary
or when the air conditioning (which is rare in private homes in San
Francisco) is running at full capacity. PG&E does offer the option to
pay an average amount each month to balance out the fluctuations, but
I personally don't know anyone who does that.

The DVD film "Enron - The Smartest Guys in the Room" provides a good
insight into the dark dealings of American energy executives.

@Z: Mexican Coke

<pic images/coca.ps The real Coca-Cola, still with sugar. Bought at the Mexican taco truck.>

<em>Michael</em> 
When you buy a bottle or can of Coca-Cola in the USA, you get a
different product than the Coca-Cola that was sold as such 20 years
ago. This is because the powerful distributors of corn syrup (a sweet
sludge made from corn) have ensured that their American product is
used for sweetening in soda-like drinks instead of sugar across the
board.

There are conspiracy theories suggesting that the substance is
significantly responsible for the fattening of American society.
Allegedly, the syrup is said to lead to excessive consumption of
sweet soda.

Whether that's true, I dare to doubt, but connoisseurs nowadays don't
buy their soft drinks at the supermarket anymore; instead, they buy
them online or at Mexican taco trucks, where you can find re-imported
Coca-Cola from Mexico at fantasy prices (I recently paid 2 dollars
for a 0.33l bottle!). Mexicans call it "Coca Mexicana." With
real sugar, like in the olden days. Because Mexicans won't be fooled.
And the internet-savvy folks in Silicon Valley line up obediently
behind the Mexicans at the taco truck during lunchtime.

See you later, Baby!

Angelika und Michael
