San Francisco, 11-24-2006

@Z: Through the Land of the Mormons

<pic images/temple.ps The Mormon Temple in Salt Lake City, Utah>

<em>Michael</em> 
At the end of October, we were drawn to the state of Utah, home of
the Mormons. If you're now thinking, "Oh God! A cult!", that's
typically German, of course. In America, all religions are treated
equally. There is no "right" religion, and when Scientology is
persecuted in Germany, Americans just shake their heads and think of
the old Nazi stories. Moreover, Mormons have been established in
the USA for a long time and have 12.5 million members worldwide.

However, it must be said that the state of Utah in the USA has a
rather medieval reputation, especially in progressive cities like San
Francisco. If there is a political figure in America who appears even
more reactionary than the current President George W. Bush, it is the
senator from the Mormon state, <LINK>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Orrin_Hatch|Orrin Hatch</LINK>.

Salt Lake City looks like a mix between Las Vegas and Disney World.
It is so sprawling that our feet really hurt just from walking a few
blocks. The streets are spotless, and even the few homeless people
are clean and have carefully painted signs explaining why they need
money.

<pic images/slc.ps Centro de Salt Lake City, Utah>

When we arrived, it was already quite late, and we asked at the hotel
reception where we could grab a bite to eat nearby. To our surprise,
the porter immediately asked us if we also wanted to drink alcohol
with it, which we laughingly affirmed.

@Z: Hard Times With Alcohol

<em>Michael</em> 
Mormons are known for not drinking alcohol or caffeinated beverages.
And in the Mormon state of Utah, this religious rule is even
self-righteously extended to non-Mormons by the government.

Supermarkets are generally not allowed to sell wine or spirits. Only
special liquor stores are permitted to do so, but there are so few of
them that we didn't spot a single one during our entire trip. There
are only 37 "Full Service Liquor Stores" and 97 "Package Agencies"
(with a smaller selection) in the entire state of Utah! In other
states, there are also regulations that prohibit the sale of alcohol
in supermarkets, but at least there's a liquor store usually right around the corner.

And, even worse: On Sundays, you can't buy beer in the supermarket in
Utah at all. Above the beer shelf in a store we visited, the following sign
was hanging on Sunday: "The municipal ordinance of XYZ unfortunately
prohibits us from selling beer on Sunday. We ask for your
understanding." And the foamy throat coolers stood uselessly in the
refrigerated shelf all Sunday until the non-Mormons could buy them
again on Monday. Because during the week, the Mormon clique
generously allows the sale. And in restaurants with the appropriate
license, it's still not prohibited, not even on Sunday.

<pic images/spencers.ps License to drink: Express membership at Spencer's for 4 dollars.>

In Utah, there is a strict distinction between bars and dining
establishments. If a place does not serve food, it only receives a
license as a "Private Club." In such a club, one must become a
"member" before being allowed to enter. This was the case at
"Spencer's Steak and Chops," a dining establishment with an attached
bar, where Angelika and I obtained a three-week temporary membership
for the bargain price of $4, allowing us to try the legendary steaks
along with two glasses of wine/beer. The steaks (highly recommended:
the 12 oz. New York Strip Steak for $34) were truly excellent, even
I, as a grill master, must admit. Overall, Utah has about 300 of
these "Private Clubs."

Until recently, it was also illegal in Utah for two alcoholic drinks
to be in front of a guest at the same time. For example, if a diner
had not yet finished their white wine but had already ordered a red
wine for the second course, the waiter had to insist on clearing the
white wine glass before placing the red wine glass on the table.
However, Utah has become more modern, presumably since the Winter
Olympics a few years ago, and this absurd law was abolished.
The article
<LINK>http://usatoday.com/travel/destinations/cityguides/saltlakecity/2003-10-07-spotlight-liquor_x.htm|"What's up with Utah's liquor laws?"</LINK>
offers an amusing summary of the bizarre situation.

Salt Lake City even featuresthe excellent
<LINK>http://www.squatters.com|Brewpub 'Squatters'</LINK>,
which brews and serves excellent beer. Beer in Utah can only
contain 4% alcohol, while 6% is common in the rest of the country.
The labels on the bottles hint with a wink at the precarious
situation in the state: The Porter Ale is called 'Polygamy Porter'
and likely alludes to some extreme Mormons who marry multiple wives,
and the Pilsner is called 'Provo Girl', in reference to the town of
Provo near Salt Lake City, where many conservative Mormons live.

@Z: Mormons

<pic images/jroom.ps In the visitor center of the Mormon temple>

<em>Michael</em> 
Salt Lake City is the Mecca for Mormons. If you are not familiar
with this religion, here is a brief summary: The Mormons, known in
America as "The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints," believe
in everything that is written in the Bible (Old and New Testament)
but have their own prophet.

In 1823, an angel named Moroni appeared to the first Mormon prophet
and founder of the Mormon Church, Joseph Smith. This happened on the
American continent, in the northern part of the state of New York.
The angel revealed to Joseph Smith the location of some golden plates
that were written in an ancient language. Smith translated them and
composed the "Book of Mormon" from them, the additional Bible of the
Mormons.

The story begins with a man named Lehi, who sailed from Jerusalem to
North America by ship 600 years before the birth of Christ. He had
two sons, Nephi and Laman, who did not get along and founded two
tribes, the Nephites and the Lamanites. After a thousand years of
conflict, the Lamanites defeated the Nephites in the year 400 AD and
exterminated them. The leader of the defeated Nephites was a man
named Mormon, who had a son named Moroni -- and Moroni appeared to
Joseph Smith 1400 years later as an angel.

The religion quickly gained many followers through Joseph Smith, and
after some detours in the state of Illinois and some complications
during which Joseph Smith was shot, the Mormons settled in a desert
area in the state of Utah -- and from this settlement emerged what is
Salt Lake City today.

The Mormons always have a living prophet. When the old prophet dies,
the eldest of a group of twelve apostles automatically succeeds him.

<pic images/adameva.ps Adam and Eve in the visitor center. Note how clean-shaven Adam is.>

Mormons are always actively recruiting new members, and during our
visit to the Mormon temple in Salt Lake City, we were repeatedly
asked to fill out a form with our address, which we naturally
declined with thanks.

But we were allowed to participate in a tour, not inside the temple
(which is members-only), but at least in the visitor center, where,
in the dome hall, we heard a performance of the
<LINK>images/jesus.mp3|voice of Jesus Christ</LINK>.

@Z: Family Research

<pic images/fsearch.ps The Family History Library of the Mormons in Salt Lake City>

<em>Michael</em> 
Mormons believe that anyone who has not been baptized as a Mormon
will inevitably go to hell. To spare their already deceased ancestors
this inconvenience, they are simply baptized posthumously in the
temple in their absence. That's why Mormons place great importance on
genealogy. Everyone traces their ancestors back at least to their
great-grandparents, and many even further.

<pic images/fsbooks.ps German books in the library of the Family History Library.>

To facilitate this time-consuming search, the "Genealogical Society
of Utah" in Salt Lake City offers computer-assisted access to all
sorts of old data collections, through which one can determine the
names, life dates, and family relationships of ones ancestors.

In the library which is operated by the Mormon Church, there are hundreds of
computer terminals available to everyone; you don't have to be a
Mormon. We first watched an introductory film and were then guided to
a computer by a friendly assistant.

Most queries are run through the website familysearch.org, which you
can also try out at home. When searching for locations, the computer
often displays a number that refers to a book in a nearby shelf or a
microfilm in one of thousands of drawers.

We searched in the international department and couldn't believe our
eyes: there were reams of German birth, death, and marriage
registers from the 19th and 20th centuries available! I examined a
microfilm with handwritten entries from my family's home village,
Langerringen, a small village of 3,000 people near Schwabmünchen near
Augsburg! Amazingly, I was even able to find several entries under the name I
was looking for.

<pic images/mfilm.ps The Microfilm Archive>

You can retrieve the microfilms yourself and without supervision,
just open the appropriate drawer.
It looks like a thick, wound film reel about 4 inches in
diameter, roughly as wide as a photo negative. You then place the
reel into a man-sized device, unwind the film a bit, and thread the
loose end through a glass projection plate onto a take-up reel on the
other side. Start turning the crank on the side panel of the apparatus
and the individual frames are illuminated by a halogen lamp mounted
above and projected onto a horizontal surface about 20 x 20 inches in size.
As you wander through the aisles, you can see people busily turning the
cranks, examining entries, and taking notes.

If you want to make a copy of an image you are currently viewing, you
take the microfilm with both reels out of the machine and ensure that
the image you are viewing remains open. Then you carry it over to the
copy room, place it in a copier, and pay 23 cents for a paper copy.

<pic images/mfilmv.ps An old death register from the 19th century on the microfilm viewer>

The books in the library are also stunning. There are even editions
of the old Nazi magazine "Ahnenerbe - Association for Clan and
Heraldry Research Assistance, Heredity and Racial Care." And
something I didn't know either: In 1529, the Turks were at the gates
of Vienna, and the defense of the Western world was financed in the
German Empire with the so-called "Turk Tax." In the collection of
the "Family History Library," I found a book in which the Turk Tax
register of 1584 was reprinted. In illustration (#8), you can see who
paid how much and when, and if not, why. If you are not familiar with
old currencies: A gulden (fl. = florin) was worth 15 batzen (b.) at
the time, and a batzen was worth 4 kreuzer (kr.).

<pic images/tsteuer.ps (#8) The Turk Tax Register from the Year 1584>

You can search anonymously, it costs nothing (except for
copying), and you can browse to your heart's content independently
and without being bothered--a truly great service from the Mormon
Church. We got so carried away in our research that we didn't even
notice how time flew by. When we finally looked at the clock, five
hours had passed. Unfortunately, we didn't see much of the rest of
the city because it soon got dark, and we hadn't even eaten
yet!

@Z: Capitol Reef National Park

<pic images/capreef.ps Tourist with rental car in Capitol Reef National Park>

TODO

<em>Angelika</em> 
Most German tourists associate the state of Utah not with the
stronghold of the Mormons, but with the breathtaking national parks.
Arches, Bryce Canyon, Zion, and Canyonlands are usually part of a
classic tour itinerary. The "Capitol Reef National Park," although
also located in Utah, is one of the less known and visited parks.

We also skipped the park during our big trip to America in 1987. It
is quite out in the sticks, just beyond the major metropolises. Salt
Lake City is about 220 miles away and Las Vegas 360 miles. Many of
the most beautiful spots in the national park can only be reached via
unpaved roads or on foot.

<pic images/rock.ps Rock in Capitol Reef National Park in Utah>

Despite this seclusion, around the year 1880, Mormons settled in what
is now the park and founded, among other things, the tiny settlement
of "Fruita," a reference to the fruit-bearing trees they planted in
the rock-enclosed valley, which still green the barren desert
landscape today. Native Americans from the so-called "Fremont
Culture" tribe were, of course, there before the Mormons but left the
area for reasons that remain unclear. The park owes its somewhat
unusual name to the fact that a rock formation resembles the dome of
the Capitol in Washington, and the pioneers encountered difficulties
crossing the steeply rising rocks, which reminded them of the
insurmountability of a reef. The park's special feature is the
so-called Waterpocket Fold, a geological shift of the Earth's crust
at a fault. Geologists know this Waterpocket Fold as a classic
"monocline," meaning a fold where the rocks rise steeply on one side
and otherwise display horizontal layers.

When we reached the park later in the afternoon, the lower sun made
the red, yellow, and orange of the rock formations appear
particularly dramatic. The view was magnificent, and we could have
surely heard a pin drop, it was so quiet. In the following days, we
hiked through deep rock canyons to remote waterholes and drove our
old-fashioned-looking rental car on the "Burr Trail Loop," which
spans a modest 120 miles (30 of which are unpaved!) through seemingly
untouched landscapes. We hardly encountered anyone and felt like we
were in another world. In such moments, I always reflect on how small
and insignificant we humans really are. By the way, the rental car
company's contract usually states that you shouldn't drive the
vehicle on unpaved roads. Of course, because they don't want to have
to pull you out of some mud hole in a godforsaken area. However, many
unpaved roads can be driven on without any problems with a normal
car, so we have often disregarded this rule (don't follow our
example, dear children).

<pic images/chimney.ps The "Chimney Rock" in Capitol Reef National
Park>

I still always ask a ranger at the visitor center about the road
conditions. This time was no different. The ranger confirmed, "No
problem at all, since the unpaved section was just leveled
yesterday." So we set off undaunted until we came to the first mud
hole. Our beloved "Perlman" would have easily managed to cross the
little stream, but it was sitting in the garage in San Francisco.

And the rental car was a Pontiac Vibe, which looks like a modern
version of the old taxis in England and, with its small tires,
doesn't quite fit into the rugged desert landscape of Utah. But
Michael, the terror of the road, was undeterred and maneuvered us
through the water without getting stuck. Thankfully, we were spared
any further surprises. However, the red sand had crept into every
crevice of the car. The man at the car rental company surely had his
own thoughts about it.

The Capitol Reef National Park is open year-round, by the way. We
just wondered how one could still get something to eat in the winter.
Not only did one restaurant after another close at the end of
October, but even the grocery store shut down, and some motels also
closed their doors until spring. The waiter in one of the still-open
restaurants mentioned that Torrey, the small town where you stay when
visiting the park, resembles a ghost town in the winter.

<pic images/deer.ps A hunter is transporting a hunted deer home.>

On our return trip to Salt Lake, winter suddenly set in. According to
the car's external thermometer, the temperature dropped to 32 degrees
Fahrenheit (which is 0 degrees Celsius) and it started to snow. When
some snow actually stayed on the road, the sun-spoiled Californian
driver started to sweat a little! But it wasn't too bad, as it was
sunny again in Salt Lake City.

@Z: Differences in Voltage

<pic images/110vPlug.ps American power plugs>

<em>Michael</em> 
If you've ever been to the USA with your German razor or hairdryer,
you will have noticed that their German plugs do not fit into
American sockets. This is because, instead of the round plugs common
in Germany, known as Schuko plugs, American plugs have flat metal
prongs.

The best place to buy American adapters for German plugs is in
Germany. In the USA, you usually only find the reverse version,
meaning plugs for American globetrotters who need to adapt their flat
plugs to the round sockets in Europe. However, in electronics stores
like Fry's or Radio Shack in the USA, you can also find adapters for
German plugs to American outlets, but be aware that they come at a
premium price. A clever globetrotter trick is to buy just one adapter
and bring a power strip from your home country, allowing you to
connect multiple devices at once.

And it should be noted that not only the plugs are different. The
voltage in the American power grid is only 110 volts, just half as
much as the 220 volts common in the German power grid.

This means that when you connect a German device to an American
outlet using an adapter, only half as much power is supplied. Without
special measures, hairdryers or razors will therefore work very
slowly, if they work at all.

<pic images/switch.ps (#1) A fan that can be adjusted.>

In illustration (#1), you can see our travel hairdryer, which can be
switched from 230V (220 or 230V, it doesn't have to be exact) to 110V
by inserting a coin into a slot. If you do this, you can use the
hairdryer (provided you have the appropriate plug adapter) in the USA
without any problems. However, if you forget to switch it back in
Germany, the device might be blown to pieces if you plug it into the
German power grid at 220V.

Highly sophisticated devices, such as some laptop power supplies,
desktop computers, or monitors, can even handle both voltages, 110V
and 220V, without any adjustment. This is indicated on the power
supply. Simply plug it in with a plug adapter, and you're good to go.

There is also the possibility of transforming the 110V from the
American socket up to 220V. However, this is an old-fashioned method
from the last century that requires thick metal cores with many wire
windings and produces alarming energy losses.

If a device only consumes around 50 watts, you can get a small one
for little money (about $7).
<LINK>http://shop3.outpost.com/product/2508451|Trafo bei Fry's"
translates to "Transformer at Fry's" in English.</LINK>
Translate to English: "buy one that converts the 110V from the
American power line to 220V and also provides the correct round
sockets for German electrical devices.

A razor or an electric toothbrush operate below the 50-watt mark and
can be easily connected. However, even a small hairdryer consumes at
least 10 times that amount, around 500 watts and upwards. If you
connect such a device to a small transformer, it will overheat and
can cause serious problems. Transformers for electrical devices up to
1000 watts cost around $30 and are very heavy. This is only
worthwhile in exceptional cases. And, as mentioned, a small
transformer consumes electricity even when idle and heats up. Such a
thing might have gone unnoticed in the 1960s, but nowadays it is
completely unacceptable.

<pic images/trafo.ps The 7-dollar cheap transformer from Fry's that
steps up 110V to 220V.>

The frequency at which the alternating current from the outlet
oscillates is 50Hz in Europe and 60Hz in the USA. In the 1980s, there
were clock radios that utilized this oscillation and therefore did
not function properly with the wrong frequency, but nowadays this is
irrelevant.

As with German Schuko plugs, there are three-pronged versions (with a
round grounding pin) and those with only two contacts in North
American plugs. This can be super annoying, for example, when an
American laptop power supply has a three-pronged plug, but the hotel
outlet only provides two prongs, which does happen. For such cases, I
have a probably illegal neon green adapter from a past trip to Japan
(Japan has the same outlets), which converts three prongs into two.

In the case of two-pronged plugs, one of the metal contact plates is
usually slightly wider (for the experts: this is the neutral prong,
as opposed to the thinner phase), so the plug can only be inserted in
one direction.

The German word "Der" translates to "The" in English. It is the
masculine definite article used for singular nouns in the nominative
case.
<LINK>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Power_plug|Wikipedia entry on the
topic of Power Plug</LINK>
Nicely compiles everything worth knowing about North American power
outlets.

@Z: The Simpsons Mock the US Army

<pic images/simparmy.ps Two US Army recruiters are working hard in a shopping mall.>

<em>Michael</em> 
Recently, I was watching the latest episode of "The Simpsons" as
usual and couldn't believe my eyes: they were actually making fun of
the US Army, which is currently having serious trouble recruiting new
soldiers due to the dire situation in Iraq.

And that on the right-leaning government propaganda channel FOX, just
imagine that! As seen in the film...
Outfoxed - Rupert Murdoch's War on Journalism
The FOX employees, under the leadership of the sinister media mogul
Rupert Murdoch, use unscrupulous methods to present news in a certain
light.

In Germany, the Bundeswehr also doesn't have a good reputation, but
the American was not familiar with such a negative attitude until
now. Until about half a year ago, solidarity with the fighting troops
prevailed in America, but recently this has started to crumble.

The former Democratic presidential candidate John Kerry recently
claimed that those who are too dumb to learn cannot go to college and
end up on the front lines in Iraq. This sparked protests from the
Army in Iraq, and some...
The text "US-Soldaten fertigten ein lustiges Spruchband an"
translates to "US soldiers made a funny banner" in English.
...and sent it as a greeting back home.

And now, in the Simpsons series, lines like "Even the dumbest teens
in the dumbest town in the dumbest state know better than to join the
Army" are being said. This prompts your intrepid newsletter reporter
to ask: Quo vadis, Ministry of Defense?

Whoever wants to can view the excerpt from the
<LINK>http://alternet.org/blogs/video/44292/|Simpsons episode on
alternet.org</LINK>
The German word "einsehen" can be translated to English as "to
realize," "to understand," or "to recognize," depending on the
context.

@Z: Elections in the USA

<pic images/ele1.ps A campaign poster advertises for a member of the
US Congress.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
I had already given up hope, but Bush finally received a lesson for
his policies in the congressional elections on November 7. Not only
the House of Representatives, which had been firmly in the hands of
the Republicans since 1994, but also the Senate, returned to the
Democrats after a long time.

The people have spoken and have settled on the golden mean. Although
ultra-right Christian groups were mobilized, their tasteless
propaganda campaign ads did not have the desired effect. Moderate to
conservative Democrats gained votes. The Iraq War is no longer
well-received by the population, and since there were no presidential
elections, voters could only indirectly punish Bush by voting for the
Democratic Party. The House of Representatives ("Congress") in the
USA consists of 435 members, who are directly elected every two
years. The number of representatives allocated to each state is
determined by the population of the respective state. For example,
the populous state of California elects 53 representatives, while the
small state of Maine is only allowed to send two.

Within a state, there is an electoral district for each
representative to be elected, known as a "congressional district."
However, these districts are not always aligned with city boundaries
and sometimes appear to be drawn quite arbitrarily. For example,
the...
<LINK>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/California%27s_8th_congressional_d
istrict|8th Congressional District</LINK>
The translation to English is: "almost all of San Francisco, with the
exception of the 'Sunset' district. This predominantly
Asian-inhabited neighborhood, on the other hand, falls within the
'12th Congressional District,' which also includes the entire Silicon
Valley.

The boundaries of the electoral districts are redrawn every 10 years
after the census by the incumbent government of the respective state,
which is interested in dividing the constituencies in a way that
gives its party an advantage. Through clever gerrymandering, it is
rare for incumbents of the respective electoral district to be voted
out. This practice is, by the way,
<LINK>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gerrymandering|Gerrymandering</LIN
K>
The term is named after the former Governor of Massachusetts,
Elbridge Gerry (1744-1814), who initiated it. The created electoral
district resembled a salamander in shape on the map (Gerry + Mander =
Gerrymander).

Electoral district boundaries are drawn based on factors such as the
age, race, income, and religion of the voters, so that the opposing
party's candidate cannot win there, effectively rendering the votes
for the opposition irrelevant.

The 100 senators of the Senate are also directly elected. However,
the crucial difference is that each state, completely independent of
its population density and size, sends 2 senators. Senators are
elected for six years, so approximately one-third of the senators are
up for election every two years. The Vice President presides over the
Senate. The fact that each state provides two senators is intended to
give sparsely populated states more weight in political decisions.

<pic images/arnie.ps Re-elected Governor: Arnie Schwarzenegger>

And the election for the Governor of California was also taking
place, in which our "Gouvernator" Arnie Schwarzenegger won by a
landslide. You might be wondering how it is possible that in the
House of Representatives and Senate elections the Democrats were
successful, and yet in California, which usually votes for the
Democratic Party, Schwarzenegger, who belongs to the Republicans, is
still in office.

This was partly due to the unremarkable figure of his Democratic
challenger Angelides and partly due to Schwarzenegger's skillful
distancing from Bush. Schwarzenegger also emphasized bipartisanship
in most of his commercials, which many voters appreciated. Some even
go so far as to consider Schwarzenegger a closet Democrat, as he not
only supports stem cell research but also wants to aggressively
advance California's leadership role in environmental protection. In
general, he approaches political matters quite pragmatically, which
is well-received in laid-back California.

Another historic event is credited to California, specifically San
Francisco. Nancy Pelosi, 66 years old and representing San Francisco
in Congress since 1987, will become the first female Speaker of the
House of Representatives, which formally elevates her to the third
most important person in the state. Pelosi belongs to the more
left-leaning spectrum of the Democratic Party. However, it remains to
be seen how many compromises she will have to make in her new
position, but hopefully, the liberal spirit of San Francisco will
continue to accompany her.

@Z: Top Product

<pic images/eraser.ps The newsletter top product: The "Magic Eraser"
by Mr. Clean>

<em>Angelika</em> 
As a child, I loved the Meister Proper commercials on TV. I think I
just liked the catchy jingle "Meister Proper cleans so well that you
can see your reflection." Funnily enough, "Meister Proper" is called
"Mr. Clean" in America, but even there, he tries to keep homes
sparkling clean with his products.

I'm not exactly known for being a cleaning fanatic, but one thing
drives me crazy: black streaks on white walls that seem to appear out
of nowhere. The Magic Eraser from Mr. Clean takes care of them. It's
a little white sponge that you just wet and wipe over the streaks,
and they're gone. By the way, "eraser" means "rubber," a great name
for this product. Supposedly, the Magic Eraser removes all kinds of
dirt, but I haven't tried that yet. The walls are enough for me.

@Z: Flop Product

<pic images/suda1.ps The deceptive packaging of Sudafed PE ...>

<em>Michael</em> 
As a counterpart to the top product, today we are also introducing a
junk product: the throat patch "Sudafed PE." "Sudafed" is the
standard medicine in America for clogged sinuses, and the stuff is
really good; I once used it to clear up a sinus infection so I could
go on a diving course in Australia. Recently, I had a cold and wanted
to buy Sudafed at the drugstore when I noticed "Sudafed PE." It
supposedly contains the same active ingredient, just in the form of a
palate adhesive strip, as previously mentioned.
<RBLINK>20030310#6</RBLINK>
The German word "besprochen" translates to "discussed" in English.

<pic images/suda2.ps ... and the truth about Sudafed PE comes to
light.>

But what did I have to find out! Upon opening the package, it turned
out that 90% of the box's contents consisted of air! And in terms of
effectiveness, I would say that this stuff is inferior to the real
Sudafed. Total junk and rubbish!

Greetings from the land of the capital crooks:

Angelika & Michael
