San Francisco, 12-15-2006

@Z: Our Newsletter Turns 10

<em>Angelika</em> 
Drumroll and fanfare: Our newsletter has just turned 10. Exactly 10
years ago, I wrote the first issue, number 0, while sitting among
moving boxes in Munich. Michael was already in San Francisco at that
time. So, I thought a retrospective would be appropriate and
extremely fitting given the occasion. You're familiar with the annual
reviews that dominate newspapers and TV shows between Christmas and
New Year. We didn't want to be left behind, except that we're
presenting both German and American events from the past 10 years:

@Z: 1996

<pic images/ksf.ps The moving boxes from Munich have arrived in San Francisco.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
The traditional German company AEG goes bankrupt. In the spring, Steffi
Graf's father is charged with tax evasion. Germany wins the European
Football Championship in England. The Olympic Games take place in the
US metropolis of Atlanta and are overshadowed by a bombing attack. In
July, the German spelling reform is adopted in Vienna. In response to
the invasion of Iraqi troops into the Kurdish protection zone, the
USA launches a military strike in September. In November, Bill
Clinton is re-elected as US President for another four years. A new
store hour law comes into effect in Germany: stores can open
their doors to customers from Monday to Friday until 8 PM and on
Saturday until 4 PM. Deutsche Telekom AG goes public. In August, we
get married. Michael's book "Effective Programming with Perl 5" is
published. Michael flies to San Francisco on November 9th and starts
working as a software developer at the startup company "Black Sun
Interactive." Angelika organizes the move. On December 9th, the
wooden crate is packed for the shipping container routed to America.
On December 23rd, the moving company picks up the remaining items for storage.
There is freezing rain in Munich at the time. Michael finds an
apartment in the Noe Valley neighborhood. On December 30th, Angelika
lands in San Francisco.

@Z: 1997

<pic images/lm.ps Michael's column "Perl-Snapshot" in Linux Magazine is entering its tenth year: issues 10/1997 and 01/2007.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
In February, the controversial exhibition on the crimes of the
Wehrmacht opens its doors. In May, a part of the famous Amber Room is
found in Bremen. The summer brings the German cyclist Jan Ullrich the
Tour de France victory. Munich actor Helmut Fischer ("Monaco
Franze") dies at the age of 70 in Munich. The former head of state of
the GDR, Egon Krenz, is sentenced to 6 1/2 years in prison. In
September, the Bundestag decides on the reform of child law to
largely equalize the rights of legitimate and illegitimate children.
Roy Lichtenstein, one of the greatest pop art artists, dies in New
York. In October, Siemens celebrates its 150th anniversary, and the
German Bundestag passes the pension reform. Angelika attends English
classes at City College. The moving boxes arrive in San Francisco.
Angelika fails the practical California driving test on her first
attempt, but succeeds on the second try. In September, Angelika
starts as a volunteer at the Tenderloin Childcare Center. Michael
switches to AOL as Black Sun completely closes its office in San
Francisco. Angelika enrolls in her first photography course. Michael
writes the first edition of the "Perl-Snapshot," a column that
continues to run monthly in the Linux Magazine to this day.

@Z: 1998

<em>Angelika</em> 
In the U.S. state of Texas, a woman, Karla Faye Tucker, is executed
for the first time in over 100 years. In June, a severe train
accident occurs in Germany. The ICE "Wilhelm Conrad Röntgen" derails
on the route from Munich to Hamburg near Eschede. More than 100
people die. In Kenya and Tanzania, terrorist attacks on American
embassies are carried out in August, claiming hundreds of victims.
While Helmut Kohl loses the election for Chancellor in the fall to
Gerhard Schröder, President Bill Clinton publicly apologizes for his
affair with former intern Monica Lewinsky. Nevertheless, impeachment
proceedings against him are initiated in October. The elections in
November bring slight gains in votes for Clinton's Democratic Party
in the House of Representatives, but not enough for a majority.
Before the end of the year, Clinton orders airstrikes on key
positions in Iraq to limit Saddam Hussein's ability to produce
weapons of mass destruction. Angelika takes various classes at the
University of California, Berkeley Extension. The second, revised
edition of Michael's German book and the English translation "Perl
Power" are published.

@Z: 1999

<pic images/perly.ps One of the best cars in the world: PERLMAN.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
The currency union comes into effect: In Germany and other EU
countries, people will now be paying in euros. In February, the
American Senate acquits US President Bill Clinton of the charges of
perjury and obstruction of justice in the Monica Lewinsky affair. In
April, the Bundestag holds its opening session in the renovated
Reichstag in Berlin. Two teenagers from Columbine High School in
Littleton near Denver enter their school with guns and kill 12
students and a teacher. In the summer, Steffi Graf retires from
professional tennis. Germany is once again governed from Berlin, 10
years after the fall of the Berlin Wall. The autumn brings Günter
Grass the Nobel Prize for Literature. The year 1999 ends, and the
feared Y2K computer problem does not occur. Angelika completes
earthquake training. We buy our car, "Perlman." Michael runs for
the first time the "Bay-to-Breakers" city race. Angelika starts
working as an assistant in the darkroom at UC Berkeley Extension.

At the beginning of the year, the CDU donation scandal involving
Helmut Kohl and their hidden accounts is in full swing. In February,
"Snoopy" and "Peanuts" creator Charles M. Schulz dies in California.
American researchers completely decode the human genome. In May, the
World Expo "Man-Nature-Technology - a new world is emerging" opens
its doors in Hanover. In the summer, agreements for the compensation
of Nazi forced laborers are signed. Germany introduces a new work visa, called
Green Card. November brings the world an unprecedented US election
thriller. Only after more than a month and some legal wrangling over
which votes can be counted, when, how, and how often, is the new
American president determined: George W. Bush defeats Democrat Al
Gore. Meanwhile, Friedrich Merz debates the German leading culture.
The first cow tests positive for BSE on German soil. Our visa needs
to be extended.

@Z: 2001

<pic images/sfm.ps 2001: Michael runs the San Francisco Marathon in 4:38:20.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
In 2001, for the first time in the history of the Bundeswehr, women
can join armed troups. In April, the first tourist flies into
space: American Dennis Tito spends 20 million dollars on the
experience. In June, representatives of the federal government and
the energy industry agree on the gradual phase-out of nuclear energy.
The so-called same-sex marriage law comes into effect in Germany. The
Jewish Museum in Berlin opens ceremoniously. On September 11, the USA
experiences the worst terrorist attacks. Terrorists fly two planes
into the World Trade Center in New York. The towers subsequently
collapse, killing 3,000 people. Another hijacked plane is directed at
the Pentagon. The fourth crashes near Pittsburgh. Osama Bin Laden is
considered to be the mastermind behind the attacks. Shortly thereafter,
letters contaminated with anthrax spores appear in the USA. Several
people die from inhalation of anthrax. In October, the first American
airstrikes on Afghanistan occur. Bin Laden's terrorist organization
is to be dismantled. In November, Gerhard Schröder calls for a vote of
confidence and ties it to the vote on the Bundeswehr's participation
in the anti-terror campaign. In December, the lowest temperature
since the beginning of weather records in Germany is measured at
Funtensee in the Berchtesgaden National Park, -45.9 Celsius. Michael
visits Germany for the first time in over four years. Angelika has a
photo exhibition with her photography group at the San Francisco City
Hall. We start learning Japanese. Michael runs the San Francisco
Marathon.

<pic images/gca.ps 2002: We receive the American Green Card.>

At the beginning of the year, the Euro replaces the familiar Deutsche
Mark as cash. In Cuba, the USA establishes a detention camp called
Guantanamo Bay for Taliban and Al-Qaeda terrorists. In February, Salt
Lake City in the US state of Utah welcomes athletes from around the
world to the Winter Olympics and tries to shed its image as a
conservative Mormon city. In April, a 19-year-old former student of
the Gutenberg Gymnasium in Erfurt kills 17 people in a school
shooting. At the FIFA World Cup in Japan and South Korea, the German
team makes it to the finals but then loses to Brazil. August brings a
once-in-a-century flood on the river Elbe, causing significant damage in
eastern Germany. Chancellor Schröder manages to defend his
chancellorship in the fall, although the SPD and the Greens win with
only a slim majority. In Washington and the surrounding area, the
sniper John Allen Williams keeps the population on edge, randomly
shooting people from his car. In November, Germany mourns the death
of Spiegel publisher Rudolf Augstein. At the end of the year, it is
announced that former US President Jimmy Carter receives the Nobel
Peace Prize. In April, we receive the American Green Card. We
discover Japan in May. Starting in September, Angelika works as a
substitute at the Tenderloin Childcare Center and no longer as a
volunteer.

@Z: 2003

<em>Angelika</em> 
In February, the American space shuttle Columbia bursts into flames
upon re-entering the Earth's atmosphere, killing seven astronauts.
U.S. Secretary of State Powell presents alleged evidence to the UN
Security Council that Iraq possesses weapons of mass destruction.
Millions of people worldwide demonstrate against the impending Iraq
War. On March 20th, President Bush declares war on Iraq, and the
first bombs fall on Baghdad. In the summer, former FDP politician
Jürgen Möllemann commits suicide by jumping to his death from a plane
with a parachute. Power outages paralyze the northeastern United States,
causing chaos. In October, German-born Roy of "Siegfried and Roy" is
attacked and seriously injured by one of his white tigers during a
show in Las Vegas. The popular duo has been unable to perform since.
The golden autumn brings devastating wildfires to California and a
new governor. Arnold Schwarzenegger becomes the leading man in the
most populous U.S. state after a spectacular recall election. In
December, U.S. soldiers discover Saddam Hussein in a hole in the
ground that served as his hiding place and arrest him. AOL
experiences another round of layoffs. Fortunately, Michael is not
affected.

@Z: 2004

<pic images/yahoo.ps 2004: Michael moves to Yahoo!>

<em>Angelika</em> 
In January, the doctor's visit copayment is introduced in Germany. Patients must
now pay 10 Euros per quarter when visiting a doctor. An American
probe lands on Mars and sends the first images back to Earth. In the
spring, photos circulate worldwide showing American soldiers
torturing prisoners in the Iraqi prison Abu Ghraib. In May, Germany
elects a new Bundespräsident. His name is Horst Köhler. In
California, former US President Ronald Reagan succumbs to severe
Alzheimer's disease. In October, Opel's parent company General Motors
announces plans to cut 12,000 jobs, most of them in Germany. In
November, Democrat John Kerry loses the presidential election,
and George W. Bush remains in office for another four years. In the
summer, we move one street corner away to a two bedroom apartment.
Michael resigns from AOL on September 1, 2004, and starts at Yahoo!
on September 27.

@Z: 2005

<em>Angelika</em> 
The new year brings Germany the unemployment reform Hartz IV and a
new immigration law. At the same time, the number of unemployed
exceeds the 5 million mark. Fashion designer Rudolph Moshammer is
treacherously murdered in Munich. In March, American coma patient
Terri Schiavo dominates the news, as her husband obtains a court
order against her parents' wishes to have her feeding tube removed.
She subsequently dies after being in a coma for 15 years. After the
death of John Paul II, the conclave in Rome elects German
Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger as the new Pope. In May, the Holocaust
Memorial opens in Berlin. In the summer, Federal President Horst
Köhler prematurely dissolves the Bundestag. The German spelling
reform comes into force. American Lance Armstrong wins the Tour de
France for the seventh time. Hurricane Katrina wreaks havoc,
devastating large areas of the states of Mississippi and Louisiana,
as well as the city of New Orleans. Desperate people are waiting in vain for
days for government assistance. In the early Bundestag elections in
Germany in September, neither the Red-Green nor the Black-Yellow
coalition achieves a majority. November brings Germans a new
passport design with stored biometric data and the first female Chancellor:
Angela Merkel now leads the grand coalition. We travel to the
neighboring country of Canada for the first time and go to Hawaii for
the 8th time.

@Z: 2006

<pic images/crnp.ps The two intrepid newsletter reporters in Capitol Reef National Park in the state of Utah>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Former Bundespräsident Johannes Rau dies at the age of 75. In
February, the bird flu virus H5N1 is detected in dead swans on the
island of Rügen. In March, Bavaria is buried in snow. Due to his
involvement in the September 11 attacks, Zacarias Massaoui is
sentenced to life in prison in the USA in May. The new
Central Station opens in Berlin. During the celebrations, a
16-year-old stabs 41 people. The bear Bruno causes a stir. He is the
first wild bear on German soil in 170 years and is later shot. In
June, it's "A Time to Make Friends": The FIFA World Cup takes place
in Germany. The German soccer team, led by coach Klinsmann, achieves third
place, and the host country presents itself to the world with charm.
In the summer, Joschka Fischer ends his long political career, and
Rudi Carrell dies from the effects of cancer. Germany narrowly
avoids two terrorist attacks: two bombs hidden in suitcases on
regional trains do not detonate. In August, Ulrich Wickert leaves the
"Tagesthemen" after 15 years. In the fall, the Bild newspaper
publishes photos of Bundeswehr soldiers posing with human bones. In
the US congressional and Senate elections in November, Democrats
regain control of both houses. Schwarzenegger is re-elected in
California. Nancy Pelosi becomes the first woman to hold the position
of Speaker of the House of Representatives. US Secretary of Defense
Donald Rumsfeld resigns a day after the election. In Germany, bribery
payments at Siemens come to light. In May, we travel to the
northernmost state of the USA: Alaska. In December, it's Utah's turn.
At the end of the year, Angelika leaves the Tenderloin Childcare
Center after 9 years and moves to an early intervention facility to
work with an autistic child in an Asian neighborhood of San
Francisco. The second decade of what was originally planned as our
one-year stay abroad has begun.

To our loyal readership, we wish a merry Christmas from the bottom of
our hearts!

Angelika and Michael
