San Francisco, 02-25-2007

@Z: Lala Land

<pic images/uvog.ps The intrepid newsletter reporters in Lala Land.>

<em>Michael</em> Even after ten years in the country, our map of America still
has sporadic white spots: Los Angeles was one such location. L.A. is the
quintessential American monster city: 3.8 million people live there, and 13
million people in the surrounding suburbs. Traffic is complete chaos, public
transportation is practically non-existent, and without a car, you're stranded.

And in typical American fashion, we went there for a long holiday
weekend: flew in on Friday evening, rented a car, drove to our
accommodation, a fancy Bed & Breakfast. On Saturday morning, we
grabbed bikes that were available there and rode along the beach to
Venice Beach and further up, almost to Malibu.

<pic images/labe1.ps On the boardwalk of Venice Beach>

It was noticeable that an unusually large number of cyclists were out
and about on this beautiful weekend; who would have thought that of
the American monster city! The beach was dominated by well-trained
volleyball players, but completely ordinary people also enjoyed the
day there, and on the basketball courts, a few daring-looking
gangster rappers were hanging around!

<pic images/labe2.ps Volleyball player at Venice Beach>

The next day, in the morning, we went to the Getty Center, a museum
complex of gigantic proportions built by the foundation of
industrialist J. Paul Getty. The site is located on a hill, and you
take a dedicated train to get up there. Everything is architecturally
styled, down to the smallest detail. And the best part: there is no
admission fee. However, if you park your car there (it's hard to get
there without), you pay 8 dollars.

<pic images/lage.ps Location of the Getty Museum>

We had gotten up early (on weekends before 11 a.m., the world belongs to you in
America), but shortly after the highway exit, right in front of the museum, we
got caught in a traffic jam reminiscent of the so-called Ikea-jam in Eching
near Munich. It took about 15 minutes, during which we moved forward about half
a mile, when suddenly, just before the museum, a brazen driver tried to cut in
line in front of our Chevy Malibu! In such cases, I am steadfast and keep no
more than a 2 inch distance from the car in front. I also honked the horn for
several seconds and signaled to the clown with "Shoo! Shoo!" gestures to get
lost, which he did. It's unbelievable what some people dare to do, but the buck
stops with me! The museum was quite nice, with a pretty good photo exhibition
on the theme "Where we live" and the painting "Cross in the Mountains" by
Caspar David Friedrich with the most ridiculous picture frame I have ever seen.

@Z: Star Maps

<em>Michael</em>
In the afternoon, we drove to Beverly Hills to mingle with the stars
and super-rich and to follow in the footsteps of Angelika's favorite
show, "Beverly Hills 90210."

As is common in the USA, the names of the residents are not displayed
on the mailbox or at the entrance of a house, and yet so many
tourists want to know where Snoop Dogg or Christina
Aguilera lives! Where is Tom Cruise's estate and where is Zsa Zsa
Gabor's?

These questions are answered by the "Star Maps," city maps with partially
elaborate aerial photographs that precisely indicate who lives or has
lived where. They are sold at fantasy prices by somewhat
shabby-looking characters on street corners. The lady we stopped at
wanted a straight $25 for a map with aerial photos, but we opted for
the cheaper version without pictures for $10.75.

Armed with that, we cruised around Beverly Hills for an hour and
found the house of singer Babyface and his dog, which was lying
in the sun on a balcony.

Many houses in Beverly Hills have these semicircular driveways, where
on average three luxury limousines are parked, mainly the bulky
bigwig cars from Sindelfingen. Just a hint, if you're spending more than $100K on
a car, you might also want to hire a taste consultant to steer you
away from those ugly S-Class clunkers. But hey, it's a free country.

@Z: Rodeo Drive

<pic images/laro1.ps Young shoppers march on Rodeo Drive like the German Wehrmacht.>

<em>Michael</em>
Right next to the hilly villa district in Beverly Hills is Rodeo
Drive, a well-known shopping street for the super-rich. And indeed,
money was flaunted there in a way you can't imagine. One Ferrari
after another, Gucci, Dolce & Gabbana, Hermes, and endless galore of bling.

<pic images/laro2.ps Gucci? Dolce & Gabbana? Hermes?>

<pic images/laro3.ps Happy Family on Rodeo Drive>

We spent half an hour, just watching people, it was quite the spectacle.

@Z: Universal Studios

<em>Michael</em>
On our last day there, after we had already checked out of our
accommodation, we quickly rushed to the "Universal" movie studio,
which offers a bus tour through the various filming
locations. Universal understood that people not only want to see the
studios and filming locations, but are also looking for a
Disneyland-like experience with the whole family.

<pic images/uvto.ps The tour vehicle at Universal>

And it's quite expensive! When you arrive by car, a guy at the entrance
asks if you want to park directly in front of the park or if you'd
prefer to walk 15 minutes through a commercial hell of fast-food
restaurants and souvenir shops. The first option costs $20, the
second $10. We chose the second option because we like commercial
hells for research purposes. Once you've made it through the hell,
the next shock comes: At the park entrance, the admission costs a
whopping $61 per person!

<pic images/uvww1.ps The plane crash scene from "War of the Worlds">

Through gritted teeth, amidst screaming children and overwhelmed
adults, you hand over the amount, and the guy in the ticket booth
calmly asks if you'd like to buy an annual pass (No!), if you're sure
(Yes!!), if you want a Front-of-The-Line pass ($99) so you don't have
to line up anywhere (No!!!), and if an All-You-Can-Eat coupon might be
worth it? (No!!!!).

Inside the park, you can either buy more souvenirs, eat fast food,
attend one of the Disney-like shows, or ride themed roller coasters.
We only wanted to do the studio tour, where they drive you past various
buildings labeled "Stage 23" in a tour vehicle and an entertainer,
then later comes "Stage 24," and further back there's a gray concrete
block labeled "Stage 25."

On goes the tour through a Western setting, then the vehicle drives into
a building, flames shoot up, the vehicle rocks back and forth, etc.,
quite well done. Then there's the replica of the great white shark to
see, flames shoot up again as a gas station in the water (?) catches
fire.

The television series "Desperate Housewives," which is quite popular
here in the USA now, is also being filmed on the premises. We drove through their
street with the tour bus, and it looks just like a typical suburban
street somewhere in America.

<pic images/uvdh1.ps Angelika photographs the set of the TV series "Desperate Housewives" from the tour bus at Universal Studios in Los Angeles.>

All in all: Quite nice if you need to kill some time before your flight home,
but I wouldn't go out of my way for it.  However, it's probably something you
should do anyway, because otherwise you might feel like you've missed
something.

@Z: Sushi in L.A.

<pic images/holly.ps The Hollywood letters on top of the mountain!>

<em>Michael</em>
And according to experts, L.A. has better sushi restaurants than San
Francisco. This is, of course, a bold claim, because in San Francisco
there are not only a thousand sushi restaurants, but also some that
serve at a very high level.

We were recommended "The Hump," a small sushi bar located right by
the private jet area of the small Santa Monica Airport. According to
the travel guide, celebrities like Dustin Hoffman are said to
frequent this place, but during our visit, the only celebrities
spotted were the two newsletter reporters.

In such establishments, there are dishes that even a good sushi
connoisseur may not have seen before, so you simply sit at the bar
and order "Omakase." The sushi chef then looks you in the eye, gauges
how much money you might have, and begins to serve his specialties
until you say stop. The menu does mention that the dishes served via
Omakase can be quite expensive, but hey, that's what credit cards are
for!

The dishes were also quite extraordinary, including a hairy giant
crab (from the cold waters around Japan's northernmost island,
Hokkaido) and foie gras with sake-marinated snapper. And the toro, a
standard dish, was probably the best we've ever eaten.

But the bill, my goodness! It was immediately locked away in the
editorial safe after the trip and will never be made public. Imagine
an absurdly high restaurant bill, and then double the amount. Only
once in a lifetime!

@Z: San Francisco Views: Presidio

<pic images/pres10.ps Former officers' houses in the Presidio>

<em>Angelika</em> 
It's hard to believe, but one of its largest green oases, the...
<em>Presidio,</em> 
San Francisco owes its existence to the military. Here's how it
happened: When the Spanish settled the West Coast of the USA with
missions in the 18th century to convert the Native Americans, they
established not only churches but also military bases.
<RBLINK>000526#1</RBLINK>
In 1776, the Spanish soldiers founded the garrison "Presidio"
(fortress) in what is now San Francisco. After Mexico's declaration
of independence from Spain, it was under the Mexican flag until 1846,
when the Americans took control.

With the end of the Cold War, the American Congress decided in 1989
to reduce military bases, and in 1994 the military finally withdrew
from the Presidio. It left behind over 800 often historic buildings,
a military cemetery, a cemetery for the soldiers' four-legged
companions, as well as extensive green spaces and groves.

<pic images/pres3.ps The translation of "Wohnhäuser im Presidio" to
English is "Residential buildings in the Presidio.>

And since 1994, this entire northwestern tip of the city, which leads
to the Golden Gate Bridge, has been under nature protection. As part
of the Golden Gate National Recreational Area, it is managed by the
National Park Service. Because the army occupied the area for so
long, hungry real estate sharks had to stay out, and the
billion-dollar land could not be sold. After all, the location is
prime. Where else can you find such fantastic views of the Golden
Gate Bridge and the Bay? The "Presidio" is a national park of a very
special kind, because by the year 2013, it must sustain itself to
avoid the risk of being sold. Therefore, in 1996, the so-called
"Presidio Trust" was established to ensure that the park achieves
financial independence from government funds. At the same time, the
charming area is, of course, meant to retain its character.

<pic images/pres7.ps Friedhof im Presidio" translates to "Cemetery in
the Presidio" in English.>

Money is currently coming into the cash register primarily by renting
out the buildings to private individuals for residential purposes and
for commercial use. So if you plan to set up camp in San Francisco
soon, you can rent an apartment or house on the Presidio grounds.
However, some people claim that there are long waiting lists.
Incidentally, George Lucas ("Star Wars") has also located his film
studio on the premises.

If you ask me, the so-called "Crissy Field" is the highlight of the
Presidio. Michael and I take walks here on many weekends. Behind
"Crissy Field" are the former runways for military aircraft, which
were located right by the bay.

The entire area was thus concreted over until 1998, when an extensive
restoration project began to return the saltwater-fed marshland to
its original state. Volunteers planted over 100,000 native plants,
and the runways were transformed into a lagoon.

<pic images/pres4.ps View from the Presidio to Crissy Field>

And since many travel guides are already writing about Crissy Field,
I can confidently share my insider tip for San Francisco tourists:
Hop on the Cable Car at Powell Street, which will take you to
Fisherman's Wharf. Skip Fisherman's Wharf, it's a total tourist trap.
Instead, turn left and walk along Aquatic Park, through Fort Mason
and the Marina, to Crissy Field.

<pic images/pres5.ps The "Warming Hut" at Crissy Field>

You always hike there along the water with a view of the Golden Gate
Bridge. Pause at the "Warming Hut" cafe when it reopens in a few
months. Unfortunately, there was a fire there a few weeks ago, which
severely damaged the building. Then take the small trail that leads
up to the Golden Gate Bridge when you reach the road to Fort Point.
The truly ambitious can, of course, also make a detour to Fort Point.
Wind your way up to the Golden Gate Bridge, walk across and back, and
hop on a Muni bus at the southern viewpoint parking lot if you're
tired and don't want to walk the same way back.

@Z: The translation of "Bewerben auf amerikanische Art" to English is
"Applying the American way.

<em>Angelika</em> 
Michael had been nagging me for years to find a new job. He was
probably tired of my complaining about one thing or another at work.
<LINK>http://youtube.com/watch?v=Dfaw65Vehr4|Tenderloin Childcare
Center</LINK>
The text appears to be in German, but there are some encoding issues
with the characters. Here's a translation of the corrected text:

"Overwhelmed. It took a while for me to get going. But when almost
half of the familiar staff in the Tenderloin left in August, I gave
myself a push last September and started looking at job
advertisements on..."

If you have more text or need further assistance, feel free to
provide additional context!
<LINK>http://craigslist.org|craigslist.org</LINK>
The German phrase "zu durchforsten" translates to "to comb through"
or "to sift through" in English.

We have already mentioned that craigslist.org has become the first
point of contact for looking for a new job, unless headhunters are
beating down your door.
<RBLINK>20040826#1</RBLINK>
My challenge was to find a somewhat interesting part-time job in the
educational field, because they are even worse paid here than
full-time jobs and you are often downgraded to menial tasks.

Michael, of course, didn't hold back with good advice and said that
the first job applications and interviews were just for warming up
anyway. No sooner said than done. The first application went to an
organization that provides early intervention for autistic children
of preschool age, and the second to a small private kindergarten
(referred to here as "preschool").

<pic images/autism.ps A poster raises awareness about autism.>

Applications in the USA do look somewhat different than in Germany.
Michael always likes to emphasize that, under no circumstances,
should the date of birth or a photo be included in an American
application, in order to prevent discrimination based on skin color
or age.
<RBLINK>20041129#3</RBLINK>
). In this country, marital status, place of birth, or religious
affiliation have no place in a job application. However, we always
state that we possess a Green Card and are therefore allowed to work
in the USA without restrictions, as many employers emphasize in the
job advertisement that having a U.S. work permit is an absolute
requirement to apply for the position.

The potential candidate also does not send copies of diplomas or work
certificates as attachments. Work certificates are a foreign concept
here anyway. Michael had to fight at AOL just to get confirmation
that he worked there from a certain time to another.

Everything in the USA operates through so-called references
(recommendations), which are almost always obtained by phone. You
already mention in the application that references are available if
needed. In practice, it usually looks like this: the offer has
already been made verbally, and then the employer picks up the phone.
You yourself decide who should be called.

It makes sense to name colleagues or supervisors with whom you had a
good working relationship. Three references are now common. For me,
at least one of them had to be of a professional nature, and the
personal ones could not be relatives. All listed individuals should
have known me for three or more years. Additionally, the employer is
allowed to gather information to verify what is stated in the
application. For example, they may call the HR department of the
previous company to ask if you actually worked there. The applicant
usually permits this by filling out a form and signing it. This all
sounds terribly complicated, but funnily enough, my new employer
didn't call anyone. It was probably enough for them that I had
diligently filled out a form with all the addresses, names, and phone
numbers.

How does the employer know what responsibilities the job applicant
had in their previous positions if no references are provided? The
solution lies in the resume (called a "resume" in the USA). Under
each job position, one lists the areas of responsibility in bullet
points.

In my resume, you will also find information about the group size and
the age of the children I have cared for. And what stands out when
you study the resume? Correct! The last employer is listed first in
the USA. Similarly, in an American resume, the highest and most
recently obtained degree is listed first.

The primary or secondary school attended is not typically included.
By the way, it's a matter of personal preference whether the resume
lists education or work experience first. Many people start with the
latter, especially if their university years or training were a long
time ago.

In America, you also tailor your resume to the position. I usually
never list the numerous internships I've done, but for the autism
position, I naturally mentioned my time in the clinic for autistic
children in Bremen. A cover letter is also part of a standard
application in America. In it, the applicant should explain why they
are particularly suited for the position and what attracts them to
it.

<pic images/resume2.ps Translation: "Part 2 of Angelika's Resume>

By the way, there are exceptions to phone references. When applying
for a degree program, three written letters of recommendation are
usually required. Some time ago, I applied for an internship at the
Museum of Modern Art in San Francisco. They also wanted the
references in writing. I had one written by one of my former
photography teachers, who actually wrote that I am a very intelligent
person. I laughed so much, as such a sentence would be unthinkable in
a German reference. But I digress. While phone interviews are common
in the first step in Michael's industry, in my field, it involves an
observation period to see the facility, plus an interview. In the
private kindergarten, I was then supposed to do a paid trial work
period and independently conduct a morning circle and an activity
offer. However, it didn't come to that because I had already accepted
a position at the facility for autistic children. There, I also
observed a home-based intervention and was given some responsibility
with the child.

@Z: The translation of "Fingerabdrücke auf der Polizeiwache" to
English is "Fingerprints at the police station.

<em>Angelika</em> 
Before I could start my new job, in addition to the mandatory TB test
and proof that I can resuscitate someone, I also had to submit my
fingerprints this time.

Through the FBI database, it was then ensured that there was nothing
against me in the area of child abuse. I was already familiar with
the procedure from the Tenderloin Childcare Center. They always sent
us to the "Children's Councils" in San Francisco for the so-called
"Live Scan," and the whole process was quick and painless.

<pic images/police.ps The main police station in San Francisco>

In the "Live Scan," a method that has been common for a long time,
fingerprints are no longer produced using ink. The individual
fingertips are placed on a scanner, the fingerprints appear on the
screen, and then they are swiftly sent electronically to the FBI.

Since we had already had to provide our fingerprints for our Green
Card, I didn't think anything of it when I was asked to go to the
police station in the courthouse on Bryant Street this time. After
all, I had called the 1-800 number for the company "Identix
Identification Services" and made an appointment, as my new employer
instructed me. So, in a good mood, I went through the security check
at the courthouse one fine morning and made my way to the police
station.

Upon arriving there, I looked a bit bewildered because I not only
encountered a jungle of hanging signs but also a long counter behind
which a somewhat grim-looking young man with many tattoos was
collecting fines from those standing in line in front of the counter.
To the right, people were sitting on various chairs in front of a
door labeled "Fingerprinting." I was a bit shocked to see a homeless
person curled up asleep next to the chairs, especially since I was in
a police station. I really thought I had stumbled into a Hollywood
production. Bravely, I asked one of the people waiting in line for
fingerprinting if they knew where I should report if I had an
appointment or if I should take a number from the well-known number
dispenser, to which they replied that they didn't work there. Thanks,
very helpful. So, I tried my luck with a uniformed police officer who
emerged from one of the various doors. He explained that I needed to
inform the man behind the counter with the fines. I found this a bit
strange, but I did as instructed, and indeed, the aforementioned man
came out from behind his counter, led me past the line of waiting
people who gave me a few dirty looks, and opened the door by entering
a code.

<pic images/police2.ps Michael, a friend of the police. (Only on the
film set of Universal Studios, haha!)>

In a flash, I found myself in the hallowed halls of the police
station. A vast room with filing cabinets, office plants, and the
occasional clatter of typewriters (no joke!) spread out before me. I
felt like I was in the crime series "Cagney & Lacey." A friendly
Black woman greeted me and asked me to take a seat. She immediately
informed me that it might take a while because the computer
responsible for FBI matters had just crashed. So, she first attended
to the nice-looking young man before me, who had to stand in front of
a large gray wall for a photo and whom she kindly asked about his
probation officer. Did I mention that above the employee's desk hung
a sign with the words "Sex Crime Unit"? It certainly got me thinking.

In the meantime, the guy I had spoken to about the fingerprint
procedures was banging like crazy on the window next to the door and
shouting that he had been waiting forever. He was actually next in
line and had to stand in front of the ominous wall for the photo.
When the employee asked him for his place of birth and residence, it
turned out that the man was homeless and had been living on the
streets for over a decade. She then immediately followed up with the
question: "What's your location?" (meaning his usual place of stay).
He replied: "24th and Mission!" Ah yes, the subway station near our
apartment. I would have loved to watch this spectacle for hours, but
unfortunately, it was my turn, and everything went smoothly.

@Z: Autismus

<em>Angelika</em> 
As I already mentioned, the institution I currently work for supports
preschool-aged autistic children. Smart minds have found that the
earlier and more intensive a support program is implemented, the
better the chances for the autistic child. For those of you who are
not educators, here is a quick summary of what autism is. The
professional community understands autism as a severe early childhood
developmental disorder that occurs before the age of three. Autistic
children have difficulties with social interaction and both verbal
and non-verbal communication.

Some autistic children do not speak at all or have a very limited
vocabulary. Often, these children do not know how to use language to
communicate. Additionally, autistic children show little interest in
other people, avoid eye contact, and have difficulty accurately
assessing the feelings of others and social situations. They often
use toys in unconventional ways or in the same manner repeatedly. For
example, the little boy I care for loves to spin objects, from wheels
to plates. Many autistic children find it difficult to cope with
changes. They often struggle with sensory disorders and therefore
either self-stimulate or react particularly sensitively to certain
stimuli.

Despite intensive research, the cause of autism has not been found to
this day. There is consensus that it involves early developmental
issues in the brain. Other scientists emphasize a genetic component,
as autism occurs more frequently in some families (but not in all).
Autism is found in all cultures and social classes. Boys are four
times more likely to be affected than girls. Autism is one of the
fastest-growing developmental disorders, and scholars naturally
debate the reasons for this. One reason is certainly the strong media
presence and improved diagnostic possibilities, but also the
expansion of the diagnosis to milder cases. In America, experts now
refer to "Autism Spectrum Disorder" because autism occurs in very
different manifestations.

My employer has now set the goal of helping these children. There are
two main focuses: intensive support in the home environment and
assistance in group situations. I work with the child at home, from
Monday to Friday, for three hours each day. I initially had some
concerns that three hours might be too much and too long for a child
not even three years old, as I was only familiar with early
intervention conducted once a day for an hour, but the program is
well thought out and works. Other children who are already in
kindergarten-like facilities receive 1:1 support from our
organization, meaning someone accompanies the child and helps them
navigate group life. Home support often takes place additionally in
the afternoon. We serve children aged between 2 and 4 1/2 years not
only in San Francisco but throughout the Bay Area. The therapeutic
approach is primarily behavioral but is supplemented by other
methods. For example, we place great emphasis on a structured
environment and visual aids like photos.

Now you might be wondering who pays for all of this. Surprisingly, in
the social desert of America, these measures are actually funded by
government resources. A law promoting children with disabilities
makes this possible ("Individuals with Disabilities Education Act"),
which I briefly explained in another newsletter.
<RBLINK>19980509#2</RBLINK>
However, two different agencies are responsible depending on the age
of the child. From 0-3 years, it is the so-called "Department of
Developmental Services," and from three years onwards, the school
authority takes over, which may work better or worse depending on
where you live.

@Z: Court data on the internet

<pic images/santaclara.ps The internet search engine of the Santa
Clara County Superior Court in Silicon Valley>

<em>Michael</em> 
It seems like your input is incomplete. Could you please provide the
full text you would like translated into English?
<RBLINK>20051208#3</RBLINK>
We have already reported that in some states in the USA, sex
offenders are required by law to have their addresses listed on the
internet. But even regular court records are publicly available, and
"publicly" here in the USA truly means: accessible to anyone on the
internet.

Let's take, for example, the courthouse of Santa Clara, a county in
Silicon Valley. Under
http://www.sccaseinfo.org
The translation to English is: "You can see which cases have been
tried there in the last few years. It's exciting to enter the names
of colleagues and come across unexpected results!

Clicking on "Search By: Party & Casetype" allows you to simply enter
a last name, and the cases being handled will appear. As already
mentioned in...
<RBLINK>20000526#7</RBLINK>
The text translates to:

"mentioned, Americans like to abbreviate their first names, so don't
search for the Oracle mogul Larry Ellison, but for 'Lawrence J.
Ellison' and not for the Apple bigwig Steve Jobs, but for 'Steven P.
Jobs' and you will find that these not long ago a" 

(Note: The sentence seems to be incomplete, so the translation
reflects that.)
<LINK>http://www.sccaseinfo.org/pa5.asp?full_case_number=1-06-CV-0677
60|Court proceedings with Plumbers & Pipefitters Local No. 572
Pension Fund</LINK>
have delivered

By the way, it's no big deal; it's completely normal in the USA for
attempts to be made to extract money from wealthy people or companies
through lawsuits. That doesn't necessarily mean the claims are
justified. But it's somewhat nice that the formula "All are equal
before the law" is actually true, at least regarding the
dissemination of information about the legal proceedings on the
internet.

@Z: Netflix

<em>Michael</em> 
Do you know Netflix? It's a new service that will drive video rental
stores into ruin. Except for the mega-chain Blockbuster, of course,
which is currently trying to drive Netflix into ruin. Welcome to
America!

<pic images/netflix.ps A Netflix envelope with a DVD arrives in the
mail at the house.>

Netflix has a website where you can select DVDs like in a video
rental store. Of course, Netflix has a few more DVDs, just like
Amazon has more books. And just like Amazon, Netflix has a
"recommendation engine," a computer program that suggests what you
might want based on data from other people with similar ordering
behavior. This way, you can create a long wish list that you then
work through step by step. By the way, the selection is very good;
practically all new movies are available. Only for very obscure art
films are some video stores in San Francisco better stocked.

The selected DVD almost always arrives the next day, as a regular
letter that the mail carrier drops into the mailbox along with the
other mail. That's cleverly done, because the Netflix team has
distribution centers spread across the entire country to prevent long
waiting times.

The DVD can be kept for as long as you want. However, it would be
foolish to dawdle, because if you send the DVD back in the same red
envelope it arrived in, Netflix will send the next DVD on your
wishlist the very next day!

Netflix offers different subscription plans, and I chose the
following one: I pay Netflix $9.95 per month. For that, I receive one
DVD at a time, but I can exchange it as often as I like.

I once calculated that you could get up to three DVDs per week this
way: Tuesday, 1:00 PM: take the DVD out of the mailbox, watch it,
send it back, run to the mailbox, it gets emptied at 5:00 PM. Netflix
receives the DVD on Wednesday, sends the next one, which arrives on
Thursday. Thursday, 1:00 PM: take the DVD out of the mailbox, watch
it, send it back, run to the mailbox, it gets emptied at 5:00 PM.
Netflix receives the DVD on Friday, sends the new one, which arrives
on Saturday. Watch it, the mail is also picked up at 5:00 PM on
Saturday, Netflix receives the DVD on Monday, sends the new one,
which arrives on Tuesday. And the cycle begins again.

<pic images/netf.ps My Netflix queue: Movies that Netflix will send
me one by one as soon as I return the DVD that I currently have at
home.>

Sometimes, however, Netflix throws a wrench in the works. A DVD might
be "unavailable" at a shipping center and then promptly sent across
half the continent, which takes three days. I call this: "Shipped
from Romania." This brings the whole well-oiled machine to a
standstill. But they can't do this too often, because otherwise
they'll get hit with a "Class Action Lawsuit," as happened some time
ago. But all in all: Definitely recommendable.

@Z: Top product: Hummingbird sugar water

<em>Michael</em> 
In San Francisco, we have hummingbirds, about 5 cm large cute
creatures with long pointed beaks that beat their wings so incredibly
fast that they can hover in the air! When such a "hummingbird," as
they are called in English, approaches, it makes a buzzing sound as
if an oversized bumblebee were flying by. And just like that, they
are gone again; they seem to live in an extremely hectic world.

<pic images/kolibri.ps A small hummingbird at the sugar water feeding
spot on our balcony.>

As previously reported (
<RBLINK>20050925#6</RBLINK>
We once rented a little house in the countryside, and the owners
there had a hummingbird feeder. It's a glass container that you fill
with red sugar water, and the hummingbirds zoom over to it and sip
the liquid from the openings.

I thought to myself that I could buy something like that for our
balcony, so I went to "Target," a large supermarket chain. At first,
I wandered aimlessly through the endless aisles, only to unexpectedly
come across an entire shelf (!) of hummingbird supplies. I purchased
a feeder and a large pack of the red sugary stuff, filled the glass
container at home, and hung the whole thing on the balcony.

For weeks, nothing happened, but all of a sudden, we started
receiving regular visits. I can hardly keep up with refilling, as the
little devils eagerly devour my treats. Top product!

@Z: Video-Wahn

<em>Michael</em> 
Angelika gave me a small digital video camera for Christmas, and
naturally, I immediately started experimenting with it. A small
sample for those who have never seen me live is shown in the video
below.

The text translates to: "ZinboomMncU|Michael reads from the Linux
Magazine.

And my craft activities are now being recorded on video as well.
Recently, I ordered a sewing machine from Amazon to finally trim and
hang the curtain that we bought at Ikea more than a year ago (!).
<LINK>https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wy-LC9r_ve0|Video|Michael as
Little Tailor</LINK>
The translation to English is: "You can admire me as a brave little
tailor.

And there is also an in-house production in documentary style to
admire: A short report about surfers under the Golden Gate Bridge, my
very first video piece with Angelika as the documentary aunt.

<LINK>https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=voh0HWnEgXk|The translation of
"Video|Angelika als Dokumentartante" to English is "Video|Angelika as
Documentary Aunt.</LINK>

The Surfers under the Golden Gate Bridge

In the next episode: How I prepare a Wiener Schnitzel according to
Alfons Schubeck's recipe and then fry it in the pan.

Bis denn!" translates to "See you then!" in English.

The translation of "Michael & Angelika" to English is "Michael &
Angelika," as these are proper names and typically remain the same
across languages.

