
San Francisco, 04-27-2007

@Z: America and the Environment

<pic images/op1.ps Talk show queen Oprah Winfrey gives environmental protection tips.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
America has awakened from its slumber, as suddenly climate change and
environmental protection are on everyone's lips. When the black talk
show queen Oprah Winfrey takes up a topic, you know that a general
trend has begun. Last week, Oprah encouraged her TV viewers to go to
the supermarket with cloth bags, replace regular light bulbs with
energy-saving ones, use environmentally friendly cleaning products,
recycle, and defy the American packaging craze.

<pic images/green.ps The energy company PG&E is advertising environmental protection.>

Now you must know that Oprah's admonitions are likely to have more
impact than those of high-profile scientists and politicians.
Especially the female portion of the population follows Oprah's
mantra like a religion. Some time ago, Al Gore also had the
opportunity to discuss his documentary "An Inconvenient Truth" on
Oprah's talk show. In it, the former Vice President under Clinton
explained the consequences of global warming using vivid photos and
graphics. As is well known, the film received an Oscar this year for
Best Documentary Feature, another indication that environmental
awareness is becoming mainstream in America.

Even companies like Walmart, which are otherwise widely known for
their poor working conditions and aggressive expansion tactics, are
jumping on the trend.
<LINK>http://www.walmart.com/green|Walmart's green website</LINK>
encouraged their customers on "Earth Day," which is celebrated in the
USA in April, to adopt more environmentally friendly purchasing
behavior. PG&E (Pacific Gas and Electricity), the company that
produces our electricity in San Francisco, also launched a PR
campaign. If less electricity is consumed, PG&E does not have to
expand its infrastructure at great expense, and so it is actually in
the interest of the power generation company if people
consume less electricity. On
<LINK>http://www.letsgreenthiscity.com|www.letsgreenthiscity.com</LINK>,
PG&E encourages people to help San Francisco take the lead in
environmental protection.

San Francisco certainly serves as a role model in terms of
environmental protection in America. Here, you frequently encounter
hybrid cars that run partly on electricity and partly on gasoline. At
traffic lights and in stop-and-go traffic, the gasoline engine is
completely off, and it only engages automatically during quick
acceleration and on the highway. As a result, these cars use
extremely little gasoline, achieving up to 70 MPG (miles per gallon),
which means they consume about 4 liters per 100 km in economy mode.
Despite this, the vehicle has almost 80 horsepower, as Americans are
reluctant to drive with less.

<pic images/pbag.ps This is how many plastic bags end up.>

San Francisco will be the first American city to ban
non-biodegradable plastic bags (at least in large supermarkets and
drugstores), and this has been widely reported in the German press,
albeit with a slightly ironic undertone. At the supermarket chain
"Trader Joe's," you can enter a raffle every time you bring your own
bag. We've been transporting our groceries from the supermarket in
our large blue plastic tub for ages.

@Z: Yahoo's San Francisco Shuttle

<pic images/shuttle.ps The shuttle bus picks up the Yahoos from San Francisco's Mission District to drive them 30 miles south to Sunnyvale.>

<em>Michael</em> 
Silicon Valley companies provide their employees with various
amenities to prevent them from going somewhere else. It is well known that software
developers are most effective when their behinds are warming the
office chair. IN <RBLINK>20041129#4</RBLINK>,
I have already reported about the traveling barber and the basketball
courts on the Yahoo campus, as well as the washers and dryers at the
Googleplex.

But the commute to work also costs nerves and valuable time. Since
quite a few people (myself included) live in trendy San Francisco for
image reasons and not in the dull suburban wasteland of Sunnyvale,
located 30 miles to the south, people sometimes accept commutes of an
hour to get to the Yahoo headquarters. I travel by bike and train,
but anyone who relies on highways 101 or 280 during rush hour can
tell you how annoying that is.

For some time now, Yahoo has chartered shuttles that stop at selected
points in San Francisco, pick up Yahoos, and take them to Sunnyvale.
And in the evening, they go back to San Francisco. Fortunately, one
of the bus stops is only about half a mile from our house in the
Mexican neighborhood "Mission"! I call that service! So if it rains,
or if I just don't feel like biking, I simply walk down 24th Street
at eight in the morning to join about 20 other Yahoos in boarding the
"shuttle" there. The bus has wireless internet, so you can check your
email and study the most important websites on your laptop.

The company Google, by the way, started this service, transporting
its employees in black "Bauer" luxury coaches from San Francisco to
the Googleplex in Mountain View and back. And the "Bauer" buses not
only drop off the Googlers in the Mission, but they even go up to Noe
Valley and continue late into the night! I've heard that residents
have already complained about the noise, outrageous!

@Z: Landfill

<pic images/landfill.ps (#1) A landfill in Napa Valley>

<em>Michael</em> 
Since quite a bit of waste is produced in America, it has to go
somewhere. Although San Francisco is diligent about recycling
(<RBLINK>20060215#4</RBLINK>), the rest of the waste also has to
disappear somewhere.

The so-called "landfills" are waste disposal sites that accept scrap during
the announced opening hours for a fee. In Figure (#1), you can see the fee
schedule for the landfill in Napa Valley, the upscale wine region north of
San Francisco. While you can dispose of 5 gallons (almost 20 liters) of
used oil for free, a refrigerator costs $15 and a mattress $12. By the way,
our oil change guy "Oil Changer" also accepts used oil free of charge,
though I'm not sure if it's voluntary or required by law.

If you have a large item, such as a couch, that you can't get rid of,
you can also call the bulk item collection service. Then, at an
agreed-upon time, a truck with strong men will come by to load and
take away the item free of charge.

We have not made use of this service so far, as we have managed
everything through the in-house (<RBLINK>20040826#2</RBLINK>).
I got rid of several items by the described trick of putting
the thing on the street
and attaching a sign that said "Free Stuff." With this method, I even
managed to get rid of a pretty large office desk with an attached
shelf. I numbered the individual parts, disassembled them, and put
the screws in a Ziploc bag with a hand-drawn sketch attached. Shortly
afterward, a pickup truck slowed down, the driver got out, circled
the desk a few times, then grabbed it, loaded everything onto the
truck, and drove off. My joy knew no bounds!

@Z: In Search of Payment Recipients

<em>Michael</em> 
Often a company or authority wants to transfer money to a private
individual but cannot find the person's account number or address.
It's not due to a lack of goodwill, and not making the payment would
be illegal. What to do? In America, there is no citizen registration
requirement, and no one knows who lives where. If someone moves once
or multiple times, their trail often gets completely lost in the
vastness of the country.

<pic images/cso.ps John Chiang, the California State Controller, coordinates outstanding payments.>

To ensure that outstanding payments still have a chance to reach
their recipients, there is the "Bureau of Unclaimed Property" in
California. This is not a private institution, but an official state
agency that offers the service selflessly without commission.

How much would you estimate the total of all these outstanding
payments to be? 10 million? 100 million? Wrong. Brace yourselves: 4.8
billion dollars are waiting for their owners. Last year alone,
239,000 cases were processed, with an average of $1,000 changing
hands.

On the website www.sco.ca.gov, companies willing to make payments
enter the amount to be transferred and the name of the recipient. If
the recipient finds the entry on the internet, they can claim the
amount by contacting the payer and providing their new address or
account number.

When the link above circulated internally at Yahoo, an enthusiastic
colleague reached out and reported that she had just discovered that
one of her former employers owed her about $150. She had immediately
initiated the process to claim the amount and had already planned how
to spend it! Americans just can't save...

@Z: Free Masons

<pic images/fm2.ps The Masonic Lodge in Santa Fe, New Mexico>

<em>Michael</em> 
When I once asked one of my colleagues about his somewhat
unusual-looking signet ring on his ring finger during lunch, he
replied that he would be happy to explain it to me, but it was a
rather long story. "Well," I said, "I have plenty of time!"

The signet ring was silver, somewhat thick, and had the letter "G"
and the silhouettes of a right angle and a compass engraved on its
flat, blue-glossy top.

The ring, as my colleague explained, is a symbol for the Freemasons,
an organization originating from the Middle Ages. In the past, some
of the members were actually masons, and being a mason was a highly
respected profession at that time. The compass and the square are the
tools of the architect, and every mason back then was also somewhat
of an architect, as they could have a say in the construction and had
more influence on the final result than is the case today.

<pic images/fm3.ps The compass and the right angle are symbols of the Freemasons.>

The "G" on the ring, by the way, is not worn by everyone, but it
stands for the "higher being" that every Freemason believes in.
Freemasons deliberately maintain a religiously agnostic stance, but
they require their members to believe in a higher being. The
Freemasons regularly meet in so-called lodges for meals, chats, and
sometimes to perform secret rituals, such as initiating new members
into the elite circle.

A few things are indeed quite old-fashioned: Women and non-members
are not allowed access to the traditional lodges, and a guard with a
sword (!) called the "Tyler" keeps a strict watch at the entrance.
During the initiation ritual, a newcomer, who must be proposed by an
existing member, is dressed in a suit with one trouser leg and one
sleeve cut off, presumably to illustrate his imperfection.

And here's an interesting fact that hardly anyone knows: Nine of the
founding fathers of the USA who signed the Constitution were
Freemasons! The most famous: The first American President, George
Washington, whose curly head adorns the one-dollar bill today. Other
international Freemasons, as Freemasons are spread all over the
world, not just in America, include: The Englishman Winston
Churchill, the Frenchman Voltaire, and the Austrian Wolfgang Amadeus
Mozart.

<pic images/fm1.ps "Scottish Rite" is a subgroup of the Freemasons.>

In the late 1970s, however, the organization made negative headlines
when the so-called lodge "Propaganda Due" in Italy operated as a
criminal organization under the guise of an officially recognized
Masonic lodge and was involved in a financial scandal that almost
drove the Vatican Bank into bankruptcy.

There are special groups within the Freemasons that establish their
own rules. In 'regular' Freemasonry, one starts as an "Apprentice",
then becomes a "Fellow of the
Craft", and eventually a "Master Mason". However,
the group known as the "Scottish Rite" introduces additional ranks
from 4 to 32, and in special cases, even number 33 is awarded. The
titles are quite obscure, ranging from "Master of the Ninth Arch"
(13th degree), to "Prince of the Tabernacle" (24th degree), up to
"Sublime Prince of the Royal Secret" (32nd degree).

Anyone who enters a lodge must wear a white lambskin apron, just like
the stonemasons of the Middle Ages, who used it to protect their
tools from the weather. Freemasons recognize each other through
secret passwords and special handshakes.

<pic images/fm4.ps Good book: 'Freemasons for Dummies'>

The best book about the Freemasons, according to my colleague, is
"Freemasons for Dummies," which was written by a high-ranking Freemason
(32nd degree). The author adheres to the rules imposed on members regarding
the secrecy of the various rituals and does not reveal more than is
permissible. But those who absolutely feel the need to tear down the curtain
and harshly illuminate even the darkest corners can easily purchase one or
another book on Amazon that divulges all the secrets.

TODO

@Z: Police Sirens

<pic images/fire.ps Run for your life when the fire brigade comes!>

<em>Michael</em> 
From American crime series, you surely know that American police cars
don't go "nee-naw" but "wee-woo-wee-wooo." There is also a difference
between police sirens and those of fire trucks or ambulances.
Ambulances tend to make a long "weeeeeee," while fire trucks, at
least in San Francisco, make a "weeeeeee-wahhhhhh," with the "wahhh"
being produced by a horn-like instrument that creates such a
low-frequency infernal noise that you voluntarily pull over.

As a visual aid, an MP3 file is attached to this newsletter. Our
neighbor's dog has the silly habit of howling at the fire trucks that
frequently race around our neighborhood, as the fire station is just
a few blocks away. I taped the <LINK>https://usarundbrief.com/67/images/howl.mp3|Howling of the neighbor's dog</LINK>
with my voice recorder. Judge for yourselves how stupid a) the dog and
b) the neighbor is!

@Z: Michael, the TV chef

<pic images/googschnitz.ps Michael cooks on internet television.>

<em>Michael</em> 
And as threatened last time, we made a video about how I fry Wiener
Schnitzel in our kitchen. Angelika operated the camera, and I just
chatted and cooked away without a script, rhyme, or reason.
Considering that, the result is surprisingly structured! Since the
edited piece is about 16 minutes long, it's not on YouTube but on...
<LINK>http://video.google.com/videoplay?docid=92574570497260796|Google Video</LINK>
.

TODO

@Z: Class Action Lawsuits

<pic images/24.ps We are being notified about a class-action lawsuit
against our fitness center.>

<em>Michael</em> 
Recently, a letter arrived at the house again, which, in its neutral
white envelope with an address window, looked like an advertisement
for a new credit card. However, inside were several densely written
pages filled with legal jargon. As is often the case in America, the
legalese was translated for the average person, and at the top of the
letter it read: "You are *not* being sued.

We were merely informed that our fitness center "24 Hour Fitness" had
become involved in unfair business practices. The company had not
processed cancellations from their monthly paying customers
immediately, but rather a month later.

In America, such a thing doesn't happen. While there is no lack of
imaginative entrepreneurial spirit to circumvent the law and extract
money from people using all possible and impossible methods, consumer
protection in America is one of the best in the world.

It seems there are some encoding issues in the text you provided.
Here's an attempt to translate it with the likely intended
characters:

"When a company crosses the line again, consumers have the option of
a so-called..."

If you can provide the correct characters or more context, I can
offer a more accurate translation.
<LINK>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Class_action|"Class-Action"</LINK>
Legal proceedings. Resourceful private individuals find out who has
been harmed by these business practices, seek out a law firm, and
then sue the company on behalf of all those affected.

If a company manufactures defective child car seats, engages in
misleading advertising, or fails to deliver promised services, it
will quickly face consequences and, if the claims are found to be
justified, will have to make substantial compensation payments.

The case is either tried in the court of the respective state or, if
the case crosses state borders or violates federal law, in a federal
court. To be accepted, it must meet certain criteria. For example,
there must not only be a justifiable and precisely quantifiable
damage, but the number of those affected must be so large that
individual court proceedings would not be practical. If the court
finds the company guilty and orders it to pay, the compensation
amount is distributed to the affected parties after deducting
expenses. These individuals then unexpectedly receive mail informing
them that someone has conducted and won a lawsuit on their behalf! If
an affected person then submits the form enclosed with the letter,
they are awarded their share of the settlement.

<pic images/242.ps (#2) As compensation for their unfair business
practices, the fitness center chain is offering a free half-hour
training session.>

a company sees a lawsuit worth millions or even billions coming its
way, it often settles out of court and offers compensation on its
own, as such cases often end in favor of the consumers. And if a
company acts particularly maliciously and criminally, there is even
the risk that the court will impose "punitive damages," which go far
beyond the actual damage caused. In the case of
<LINK>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BMW_of_North_America%2C_Inc._v._Go
re|BMW versus Gore</LINK>
In 1996, BMW had to pay $2,000,000 because the company sold their
repaired cars in North America as new. The plaintiff's damage was
only $4,000, but the court was so outraged by this audacious business
practice of the Bavarians that it showed them who was boss.

In the case of "24 Hour Fitness," an out-of-court settlement was
reached, likely because the company wanted to avoid the risk of a
trial. As you can see in Figure (#2), every customer can now choose
from four possible compensation options, including a free half-hour
private training session offered by 24 Hour Fitness! We can certainly
appreciate that.

@Z: Toppprodukt

<pic images/bike.ps Michael performs bicycle repairs in the living
room.>

<em>Michael</em> 
Services are relatively cheap in America. If you take your car to a
budget workshop in the Mission District of San Francisco, the
mechanics will take apart half the engine for a few hundred dollars.
However, this does not apply to bicycle repairs. Although there are
an unusually high number of cyclists in San Francisco by American
standards, the few bicycle mechanics charge exorbitant prices.

I do patch tires myself, but for other issues like broken gear or
brake cables, I have so far gone to the bike shop I trust, which is
also located in the Mission District. For such minor repairs, you pay
about $20 plus the cost of materials, which is just about acceptable,
although it's certainly a steep price by American standards. But
every time I show up there, the mechanic takes me aside and says that
I have such a nice bike, but the maintenance leaves something to be
desired!

I should just leave the bike there for a "tune-up," and then worn
parts like brake pads would be replaced, the gears adjusted, and so
on and so forth. Among experts, it's well known that the tune-up is
the "license to print money" for bike mechanics and costs $120. In
Germany, I would respond to such a mechanic's suggestion by pulling
down my lower eyelid, but unfortunately, no one in America
understands this gesture!

<pic images/bikestand.ps When folded, the bicycle repair stand takes
up very little space.>

So that I can carry out bicycle repairs at home in the future, I
recently...
<LINK>http://rei.com|REI</LINK>
Through gritted teeth, I shelled out $140 for a bike repair stand,
and I have to say, it was money well spent. I immediately repaired a
brake cable at home, and it's really nice to have the bike so stably
mounted in front of you without constantly having to worry about it
tipping over when tightening screws. And when folded, the stand is
only slightly larger than a camera tripod and can be easily stored in
a closet. Top product!

@Z: The Eternal Stamp

<pic images/forever.ps The stamp that is valid forever.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
The American postal service has to endure quite a bit of teasing
because, even in the USA, it has a touch of bureaucracy about it.
However, I swear by our post office on 24th Street and our good soul,
the mailman George, who has been delivering mail in our neighborhood
since time immemorial. He kindly leaves our packages from Germany at
our apartment door when we're not home.

It is particularly unpopular when the postal service increases its
fees and letters and postcards suddenly cost more. This has happened
relatively frequently in recent years. When we moved here in 1996, a
regular letter within America weighing up to one ounce (1 ounce =
28.35 grams) cost 32 cents. Now we pay 39 cents for it, and starting
May 14, the postal service will raise the fee to 41 cents.

The evil email is to blame, as supposedly people are sending fewer
letters, and the increase is intended to bring more money into the
coffers. To appease public anger, the decision-makers at the United
States Postal Services (that's what the postal service is called
here) came up with the brilliant idea of introducing the "Forever"
stamp to the market.

As the name suggests, this particular stamp is intended to remain
valid even with future price increases. You pay the regular 41 cents
now and can still stick it on the envelope in the future, even if,
let's say, 43 cents are actually required. I naturally thought this
would lead to panic buying, but when I stopped by the mentioned post
office on 24th Street last week, I was still able to purchase the
"Forever" stamp without any problems. However, the post office hasn't
clearly indicated how long the stamp featuring the image of the
Liberty Bell will be on the market. 

@Z: The "Center for the Book" in San Francisco

<pic images/cftb.ps Center for the Book", the Academy of Bookbinding
Art.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
I am still, as is well known, mourning the darkroom and the UC
Berkeley Extension location on Laguna Street. I took quite a few
courses there and spent hours developing my photos.

On the site, by the way, as we all suspected back then, nothing has
happened. The buildings remain unused and idle. A pity! Thank God,
however, there is still the so-called in San Francisco.
<LINK>http://www.sfcb.org|Centro del Libro</LINK>
.. an institution that opened its doors in San Francisco in the
summer of 1996 and is entirely dedicated to the art of the book.

Besides smaller exhibitions, the main focus of the institution is to
teach eager students how to make handmade books. On one hand, you
learn the craft skills, such as how to sew pages into a book cover
with needle and thread. But it's also about the book as an art
object. In the age of digital mass production, this craft is
experiencing a kind of renaissance. A variety of courses are offered,
which either take place over several evenings or on weekends. I have
already taken a few, from classical bookbinding to creating books
that house three-dimensional objects. However, I have not yet dared
to approach the old printing presses that stand around the center
like in Gutenberg's time.

@Z: Insurance in America

<pic images/insure.ps The motor vehicle registration authority urges
people to insure their cars.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
We have just switched our car and household insurance, and since this
topic is of interest to many expatriates, I have compiled the most
important facts. Changing insurance is always quite annoying, but
Michael had been insisting for years that our insurance was ripping
us off, because even though we never reported a claim or received a
fine, the premiums kept cheerfully increasing every year.

Guess who called the various insurance companies and requested
quotes? That's right, I was on the phone until my fingers were sore.
When dealing with such offers, you have to be careful not to compare
apples to oranges. A car insurance policy is made up of standard
components that can be purchased individually. By the way, they are
quite similar to those offered by car rental companies for additional
protection, as Michael has already described.
<RBLINK>20020201#1</RBLINK>
First, there is the so-called "Collision" (full coverage). It covers
damage to your own car caused by traffic accidents, regardless of
fault. Another package, the "Comprehensive" (partial coverage),
includes theft, as well as damage from fire and storm. Typically,
both have a deductible. Since our car, the Perlman, is quite old and
unfortunately not worth much on paper anymore, we don't need either
"Collision" or "Comprehensive." However, you absolutely need
liability insurance ("Liability"). It is divided into bodily injury
and property damage. Except for a few quirky American states, almost
all require auto liability insurance by law. However, the mandated
coverage amounts are extremely low: In California, for example,
$15,000 per injured person, $30,000 for all personal injuries per
accident, and $5,000 for property damage. An absolute joke.

When registering a car in California, the car owner must provide
proof of liability insurance. And every year, when the vehicle taxes
are due, one must again present or mail in a certificate. Recently,
insurance companies often report the status of the contract
electronically to the Department of Motor Vehicles. Since October
2006, it has also been the case that the registration will be revoked
if the liability insurance is no longer in place for any reason.
Other states are significantly more lenient in this regard.

Anyone who is smart naturally buys liability insurance with higher
coverage amounts; $500,000 is appropriate. Additionally, I have now
realized that everyone in this crazy country should also purchase
another package: the "Uninsured and Underinsured Motorist Coverage."
This insurance kicks in when the other driver who caused the accident
has no liability insurance, commits a hit-and-run, or is
underinsured. This happens frequently due to the low minimum coverage
amounts.

In the end, you essentially buy insurance for the other,
irresponsible driver so that you can cover damages like long-term
disability even if they cannot pay. In California, it's important to
consider that many illegal immigrants often drive without a license
and are usually uninsured. There always seems to be a way to
circumvent legal requirements. Most people recommend having the same
coverage amount for "Uninsured Motorist" insurance as for regular
liability insurance, which is $500,000. You can also purchase
something like auto medical insurance ("Medical Payments"), which
covers all medical expenses in the event of a car accident for
yourself and the passengers, regardless of who is at fault. This is
especially useful if, like many Americans, you live without health
insurance. The American household insurance is called "Homeowners" or
"Renters Insurance," depending on whether you are a homeowner or a
renter. At first glance, it looks similar to the German one. The
household contents are replaced in the event of burglary, theft,
fire, or water damage after a deductible. Earthquakes are excluded
from household insurance in California, as it would be too risky for
insurance companies! There are separate earthquake insurances for
that.

It is interesting to note that in household insurance, liability
coverage is included. If a visitor breaks a bone in an apartment
because they trip over something, the household insurance pays for
it. This is due to the peculiar fact that America does not have
standalone personal liability insurance. In Germany, these are quite
affordable and come with high coverage amounts.

The equivalent of personal liability insurance with a high coverage
amount can only be obtained in America through a trick: In addition
to home and auto insurance, one takes out a so-called "Personal
Liability Umbrella Insurance.

Umbrella" (Schirm) is the name of the insurance because it provides
the individual with a certain all-around protection and is spread
over the other insurances like an umbrella. If a catastrophic event
occurs and, for example, the car insurance reaches its liability
coverage limit, the "umbrella" insurance steps in.

However, you will only get the umbrella if you have both car
insurance and home insurance. However, I have no idea what someone
does if they don't own a car. Additionally, the insurance companies
usually require certain minimum liability limits for car and home
insurance before they sell an "umbrella" insurance policy.

A translation of the text to English is:

"An example: If you take out household liability insurance for
$300,000 and auto liability insurance for $500,000, you can purchase
an 'umbrella' policy of 1 million dollars or more. We urgently need
the umbrella policy, after all, Michael rides his bike like a madman
every day and was known for his daring maneuvers even as a child.

The translation of "Wir leben gefährlich" to English is "We live
dangerously.

The translation of "Michael und Angelika" to English is "Michael and
Angelika.

