San Francisco, 06-10-2007

@Z: Bermuda

<pic images/hdlbar.ps The Clearwater Beach near St. Davis as seen from the moped.>

TODO

<em>Michael</em> 
We went on vacation again. Since we already know Hawaii inside and
out, this time we flew in the other direction. First across the
continent to New York and then another 2 hours further east. There
lies the English colony of Bermuda, a tropical island only 3 km wide
and 35 km long with turquoise water and long, secluded sandy beaches.

Bermuda is located about 800 miles off the east coast of America in
the Atlantic. On the map in illustration (#3), you can see that the
three corners of the so-called Bermuda Triangle point to the American
city of Miami in Florida, the Caribbean island of Puerto Rico, and
the island of Bermuda in the northeast. Numerous legends about lost
ships are associated with this part of the Atlantic.

<pic images/bermuda-triangle-wikipedia.ps (#3) The Bermuda Triangle
between Miami (left), Puerto Rico (bottom right), and Bermuda (top).
Source: Wikipedia>

In Bermuda, only about 65,000 people live, but there isn't much space
there either. According to travel guides, Bermuda's population
density is only surpassed by metropolitan areas like Hong Kong.
Tourists are not allowed to rent cars, only scooters, or they rely on
the relatively well-functioning public transportation. However,
asking the cashier at the supermarket if she could call a taxi and
then waiting for 20 minutes in the parking lot with five large paper
bags can be quite annoying, so we rented a small moped.

<pic images/scooter.ps The death-defying newsletter reporters on a
borrowed moped in Bermuda.>

<pic images/tscoot.ps Scooter for tourists at the scooter rental
company>

That was fun! Angelika was sitting on the back, and as you know, I
rode motorcycles in my youth, so after some hairy maneuvers in
left-hand traffic, it actually went quite well. The Bermudian also
drives quite briskly in the car, but that might be because after ten
years in California, we've slowed down a bit and tend to be somewhat
nonchalant in traffic. In any case, the bus drivers drive like
maniacs, and when you have a huge salmon-colored bus on your tail
while on a moped, it can make you feel a bit uneasy!

<pic images/hamilton.ps The main street of the capital Hamilton>

If every adult resident of Bermuda owned a car, traffic would come to
a standstill in no time. That's why each household is assigned an
"Access Number," and only one car per Access Number is allowed. A
second car is not permitted. If the spouse or teenagers living at
home want a vehicle, they can only get a low-powered moped, which
costs a dizzying $4,000! By the way, the registration for a mid-sized
car costs $1,200 per year. And a family member must always be in the
car. Anyone caught lending their car will get into trouble. Tourists
can ride the moped without a driver's license, but locals must apply
for a permit, which they can obtain from the age of sixteen after
passing a driving test.

<pic images/taxi.ps Taxis are in high demand because no tourist is
allowed to rent a car.>

The young moped owners, however, drive like madmen. They're
constantly in the fast lane, and quite a few accidents occur. The
landlady of the place we had settled into checked every day to see if
the moped was still intact and praised our accident-free driving.
Apparently, tourists often come home with abrasions and dented
vehicles.

<pic images/beach.ps Angelika is walking along the beach.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
When looking at oceans and taking long walks on the beach, I always
start to philosophize: How does the salt get into the sea? Why is the
sand white? In Bermuda, I was plagued by two questions: Why is the
sea such a beautiful turquoise, and why does Bermuda's tourism
industry advertise the pink beaches? Because at first glance, the
sand shimmers in the finest yellowish-white tones, with no trace of
pink. But upon closer inspection, you get to the bottom of it.
Scattered throughout the sand are small pink shell particles that
make the sand appear partially pink. They come from a sea-dwelling
creature called "foraminifera," which has a reddish shell. When this
organism dies, the waves crush the shell into tiny pieces and wash
them onto Bermuda's beaches. Depending on the weather, the sand can
appear more or less pink. The beautiful water color is due to the
fact that there is hardly any phytoplankton in the ocean around
Bermuda. Phytoplankton are small plant organisms that float around in
the water. Without them, the sun's rays can hit the sandy bottom
unimpeded and be reflected, making the water appear turquoise.

And another thing that catches the attentive tourist's eye: All the
roofs of the houses in Bermuda shine brilliantly white and have a
funny stepped shape. There is a very pragmatic reason for this.
Drinking water is scarce on the island because there are no rivers or
lakes, so rainwater is collected with the help of the special roof
construction. The built-in steps in the roof are a sophisticated
system of rain gutters.

<pic images/roofs.ps All houses in Bermuda are required by law to
have white roofs.>

Behind the white paint is a special coating that ensures the precious
rainwater collected on the roof doesn't get dirty. Very clever! Now
you might be wondering how often it rains in Bermuda. Since these are
subtropical and not tropical islands, the rain falls fairly evenly
throughout the year. The temperatures drop in the winter months
(November to April) and hover around 20 degrees Celsius, while in the
summer months from July to September, the thermometer climbs to 30
degrees. For the locals, the water in May is still too cold at 18
degrees, but we swam every day.

<pic images/cship.ps A huge cruise ship docks in Hamilton.>

<em>Michael</em> 
Large cruise ships primarily visit Bermuda, docking at the three main
piers at Dockyard, in Hamilton, and in St. George. These ships each
release hordes of 2,000 people into the small towns for a few hours.
If you avoid these behemoths, you will often find yourself completely
alone, especially in the early season.

<pic images/cannon.ps Michael tries out the old cannon at the Bermuda
Maritime Museum.>

In the country's museums, you can marvel at old cannons and all sorts
of treasures that have been recovered from shipwrecks stranded around
Bermuda. A coral reef belt surrounds Bermuda, on which countless
ships have run aground. Much to the delight of the residents, who
then set about salvaging the wrecks.

A remarkably large number of people in Bermuda have the last name
"Tucker." There is also a "Tucker's Town," but according to our taxi
driver, who incidentally was also named "Tucker," it is not named
after a famous Bermudian diver named Teddy Tucker. Teddy Tucker, the
Bermudian national hero and wreck diver, recovered countless
treasures from sunken ships, including a 16th-century golden cross
adorned with gemstones. This cross was displayed in the museum until
1975, when someone stole it and replaced it with a plastic replica,
so now a plastic cross stands in the glass case, which is quite
laughable!

<pic images/reef.ps Many ships have run aground on the reef belt
around Bermuda.>

Furthermore, during the time of the slave trade, Bermuda was directly
involved in the gruesome business. The museum at the Dockyard
features a detailed exhibition about how slaves were taken from
Africa and then transported under inhumane conditions on slave ships
to Europe and America. Bermuda was one of the first ports of call
before the ships continued on to America. Many Bermudians are
descendants of former slaves. It was interesting to note that the
topic was presented very thoroughly and candidly, whereas in the USA
it is usually brushed aside quickly.

<pic images/slaves.ps During the time of the slave trade, Bermuda was
an important transshipment point.>

The location of the Bermuda Triangle varies according to different
sources, but it is usually understood to be the area shown on the map
above. The island of Bermuda is at the apex of the triangle. Strange
things are said to happen in this area, such as a report of a flight
that entered the region and lost all radio contact for 15 minutes.
When the plane later landed in America, it was discovered that the
control tower had not noticed the loss of connection, and the clocks
of the crew and passengers were 15 minutes ahead! Under the...
The text you provided is a URL and a brief description in German. It
translates to:

"Entry 'Bermuda Triangle' on Wikipedia"

You can visit the link to read the Wikipedia article about the
Bermuda Triangle in English.
You can read more documentation of strange occurrences. However, the
two newsletter reporters got away unscathed.

<pic images/shorts.ps As a national costume, the Bermudian wears long
knee socks and short shorts.>

The upscale restaurants in Bermuda require their guests to adhere to
certain dress codes. In some fine establishments, you are only
allowed to dine with a tie and jacket! However, we learned from our
landlady that some owners had to relax the rules because the overly
strict British nonsense was annoying the predominantly tourist
guests.

<pic images/dresscode.ps (#2) Sign in front of a restaurant that
requires a certain dress code from its guests.>

And of course, no one who is somewhat fashion-savvy wears the typical
Bermuda shorts for men with long black knee socks. The restaurant
whose sign in illustration (#2) requires "smart casual," which in our
opinion meant something like leather shoes and a polo shirt, let me
in without any issues in my typical outfit of a gangster rapper
T-shirt and software developer cargo shorts.

The prices in Bermuda are really adventurous. It's not uncommon for a
main course in a relatively normal restaurant to cost $30. Compared
to that, even San Francisco is inexpensive! The food didn't really
blow us away, although some of the restaurants recommended in the
travel guide were quite good. Additionally, the waiter adds a 15% tip
to the bill without asking, which is particularly unpopular with
Americans.

<pic images/bus.ps The buses are all from the German company MAN and
run on time according to the schedule.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Bermuda comes across as quite British. Michael already mentioned the
left-hand traffic and the dress codes. Our landlady also warned us
right away that we wouldn't get anywhere in Bermuda if we didn't
display British politeness. Simply throwing a "Excuse me, is this the
bus to the Dockyard?" at the bus driver would be considered rude. No,
it must first be "Good afternoon. How do you do?" before you can get
to your actual request. Michael, of course, rebelled a bit against
this stiff formality, as he has spent 10 years in laid-back
California.

<pic images/dandan.ps The translation of the German phrase "My name
is Dan Dan", ein Matrosensong zum Segelaufziehen is: "'My name is Dan
Dan,' a sailor's song for hoisting the sails.>

How did the English even manage to discover Bermuda? The Spanish
captain Juan de Bermudez, after whom the islands are named, sailed
around the islands as early as 1503 but showed no interest in
colonizing the uninhabited islands. In 1609, the English Admiral
George Somers, who was sailing on behalf of the British "Virginia
Company," ran his ship "Sea Venture" onto one of the reefs off
Bermuda on his way to Jamestown, Virginia. He and his crew had to
stay on Bermuda to build new ships and left a few men behind when he
set off again for North America. The "Virginia Company" liked the
idea of claiming the hitherto uninhabited Bermuda and sent 60
settlers there in 1612. However, the British pound did not establish
itself as the currency. There is the Bermuda Dollar, which is traded
at a 1:1 rate with the American Dollar. The US Dollar is an
equivalent means of payment, as we were able to use our green
American bills everywhere. It is common to receive both Bermuda
Dollars and US Dollars as change. This is also the practice among the
island's residents. Only the ATM exclusively dispenses Bermuda
Dollars.

<pic images/stgeorge.ps House in St. George>

Bermuda is an expensive place because, as is common on islands,
everything has to be brought in from far away. Additionally, Bermuda
imposes high tariffs on imported goods. Most of the groceries in the
supermarket come from the USA. However, we also found British
products, which often seemed cheaper due to the lower tariffs on
certain products from England. The Irish butter, for example, was
incredibly affordable.

Living space is scarce and in high demand in Bermuda due to the lack
of space. Rents, as various taxi drivers informed us, are extremely
high, easily comparable to those in San Francisco. Additionally,
every wealthy individual builds fancy vacation homes (or rather
villas) in Bermuda, which remain empty for most of the year. For
example, Michael Douglas and Catherine Zeta-Jones have a house on the
island. Since Bermuda is a tax haven for companies, many have their
nominal headquarters here. Despite the high cost of living, the
standard of living is high, as everyone proudly tells you.

<pic images/popler.ps Even in Bermuda, truck drivers pick their
noses.>

<em>Michael</em> 
We made the most of our one week of vacation and flew out on Friday
evening at 10 PM. The next morning (with a four-hour time
difference), we were on the island. We returned just over a week
later, on Sunday, and the next day we were back at work with a nice
tan. Oh yes, we already miss the German vacation conditions...

@Z: Smog test on the internet

<pic images/perlman.ps No problems with the smog test: good old
Perlman.>

<em>Michael</em> 
The German word "Im" translates to "in the" in English. It is a
contraction of "in dem," which is used in the dative case.
<RBLINK>20050701#5</RBLINK>
We have previously reported that there is no TÜV (Technical
Inspection Association) in America, but there is a biennial emissions
test. And since everything is available on the internet nowadays, the
authorities in California thought: Let's put all the results online,
including the license plate and the vehicle identification number of
each car.

<pic images/smog.ps PERLMAN's emissions test results, along with his
vehicle registration number, are available on the internet.>

<LINK>http://www.smogcheck.ca.gov/vehtests/pubtstqry.aspx|On the
Internet|California Emissions Test Online</LINK>
Now, one can publicly admire the emissions tests of Californian cars.
You can search by license plate or by the vehicle identification
number (VIN). If you search by license plate, the website
conveniently provides the VIN along with the emissions values. This
means you can then search by the VIN and obtain all the license
plates that the vehicle has had over the years. According to a
report, car thieves are using this service.
<LINK>http://www.snopes.com/crime/warnings/vin.asp|Report on
Snopes.com</LINK>
Sometimes it involves ordering replacement keys for some car on the
street. Often, all that is required for this is the vehicle
registration number. Just enter "PERLMAN" and then you can see that
our good old PERLMAN has passed all smog tests with flying colors
since 1993!

Addendum: As can be seen in Figure (#5), the DMV blocked the issuance
of the VIN shortly after the publication of the article.

<pic images/fixed.ps (#5) Two months later: The DMV no longer issues
the VIN.>

@Z: Lichtschutzfaktor Sonnencreme" translates to "sun protection
factor sunscreen" in English.

<pic images/sunscreen.ps (#1) The sun protection factor of a
sunscreen is different in America and Europe.>

<em>Michael</em> 
Have you ever been to America, bought SPF 20 sunscreen, laid on the
beach, and ended up with a patchy sunburn? Ha! That happened to us
too. Obviously, it wasn't a "real" SPF 20.

Funnily enough, only speculative nonsense can be found on the
internet about this topic. Some claim that the German sun protection
factor (LSF) and the American sun protection factor (SPF) are
determined using the same method. Others report drastic
discrepancies, stating that the American value is exaggerated by 50%
to 100%. There are no serious scientific reports -- the medical
clowns of the world obviously haven't published their dissertations
on the internet yet. Hello, wake up!

However, we are not naive either. Supported by long-term research
projects on the world's most important beaches, we put on our white
lab coats today and boldly claim: The "SPF" indicated on American
sunscreen packages corresponds to a "sun protection factor" that is
about 30% lower. So if you buy a 20 SPF in America, you effectively
have a 12 SPF by German standards. I wouldn't lie on any Californian
beach with that, as a sunburn is inevitable.

Recently, Costco had a deal on two tubes of Neutrogena sunscreen (see
image (#1)) with SPF 55 (which is roughly equivalent to SPF 35 by
German standards) for $13.99. A bargain price! Neutrogena makes one
of the best sunscreens in the world. Not chalky at all, as is usually
the case with sunscreens in the higher protection range. Silky on the
skin and not greasy at all! I had to stock up immediately.

@Z: Sudafed PE and Sudafed

<pic images/suda.ps The lax Sudafed PE.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Michael has in However, the sentence seems incomplete. Could you
provide more context or the rest of the sentence for a more accurate
translation?
<RBLINK>20061124#10</RBLINK>
The throat patch Sudafed PE was indeed rated as a junk product. Back
then, we thought the poor quality was due to its administration as a
strip instead of the proven pill form. Recently, however, a colleague
of Michael mentioned that he was getting tired of always having to
show his ID when buying the original "Sudafed" to combat his chronic
sinus problems. Hmm, that made us suspicious, and I went to the
drugstore chain "Walgreens" to get to the bottom of it.

First, you need to know that neither Sudafed nor Sudafed PE are
prescription drugs in America. Over-the-counter medications are
typically available on the shelves in drugstores and supermarkets in
America, just like toothpaste. The customer grabs the medication and
goes to any checkout counter in the store to pay. For prescription
medications, however, you need to hand over the doctor's prescription
at a counter, and the medication is retrieved by employees from
shelves behind the counter, similar to German pharmacies. But now
back to my Walgreens research. So, I diligently searched the aisles
with the medications for Sudafed and quickly found Sudafed PE in box
form. However, for the original Sudafed, there was only a card in the
shelf, which stated that you should take it to the "pharmacy
counter." I handed the card to the friendly lady behind the counter,
who then asked me for an ID. So, I dug out my California driver's
license, which she swiped through the register using the magnetic
strip. Then she typed something into the computer, I had to sign, and
finally, I was allowed to pay for and take the Sudafed with me.

<pic images/suda2.ps The real Sudafed -- is only available with the
presentation of an ID.>

Now you might be wondering what all this nonsense is about. The
active ingredient is the key to the mystery. The original Sudafed
contains "pseudoephedrine," which can be relatively easily used to
produce the drug methamphetamine (also known as meth or crystal),
while Sudafed PE contains the active ingredient phenylephrine, which
cannot be used for that purpose.

To prevent meth addicts from buying large quantities of Sudafed to
brew their drug in the back room, the purchase of products containing
pseudoephedrine or ephedrine has recently been regulated in the USA.
The law, "The Combat Methamphetamine Epidemic Act," made this
possible on a national level after some states had already been
practicing similar regulations for some time. Since September 2006,
each customer is allowed to buy only 3.6 grams of pseudoephedrine or
ephedrine per week or 9 grams per month. Hence the fuss about showing
my ID and registering how much Sudafed I bought and when. The drug
"meth" has spread epidemically in the USA. It has a strong
stimulating effect and causes large amounts of the neurotransmitter
"dopamine" to be released, leading to euphoric states of happiness.
The problem is that people become addicted to the stuff and can no
longer experience feelings of happiness without the drug because the
dopamine receptors in the brain are damaged. Strokes, nerve damage,
psychoses, and rotting teeth are also not uncommon with prolonged
abuse. As a deterrent, television here often shows photos of meth
addicts. If nothing easily fazes you, take a look at the...
<LINK>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meth_mouth|The Wikipedia page on
the topic "Meth Mouth</LINK>
The German phrase "Mahlzeit!" can be translated to English as "Meal
time!" or simply "Enjoy your meal!" It is often used as a casual
greeting around lunchtime in German-speaking countries.

@Z: Top product: Helmet rearview mirror

<pic images/mirror.ps The small rearview mirror on the helmet helps
to keep an eye on incompetent drivers.>

<em>Michael</em> 
Riding a bicycle through San Francisco requires the utmost attention.
According to my personal statistics, 70% of the driving population
lacks the technical skills to drive. These are people who hit the
curb while turning, can't keep their car in the lane, and run red
lights because they can't accurately judge the timing of the traffic
lights changing. If such a person is also on their phone, double
caution is advised.

For such people, as a cyclist, you have to make decisions for them to
prevent an accident. If they are driving behind you and want to
overtake, but there is obviously no space to complete the maneuver
safely, you simply ride in the middle of the lane as a cyclist until
the situation is resolved. However, constantly turning around to see
what's going on is uncool and even dangerous, so I bought a helmet
mirror a few months ago.

This makes you look like a "Borg" from Star Trek, but the mirror
helps so much in assessing the road situation that I don't even know
how I would manage without it!

There are many different helmet mirrors, but I chose the model...
<LINK>http://www.mtbr.com/reviews/Extras/product_86204.shtml|Take A
Look" by the company "Bike Peddler</LINK>
Translation: "Bought from Colorado. It is extremely simple in design,
makes an extremely stable impression, and is easy to adjust. Cost:
$15. Top product!

@Z: Mail from the Waterworks

<pic images/wc1.ps The water utility in San Francisco is urging
people to conserve water.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
The Californian winter of 2006/2007 brought us too little rain, so
the water reservoirs were not sufficiently filled. In the summer,
this can lead to water shortages, especially in Southern California.
That's why we recently received a...
<LINK>http://usarundbrief.com/68/images/wc.pdf|Brochure from the
Waterworks</LINK>
into the house, which contained tips for saving water.

You know, installing water-saving showerheads, only running the
dishwasher when it's fully loaded, not leaving the tap running while
brushing your teeth. Dry winters have occurred more frequently in
California. However, I found it interesting when reading the brochure
that it pointed out global climate change, which scientists say will
bring us drier winters in the future. Ha, didn't I already announce
in the last newsletter that the topic of global warming has become
socially acceptable in the USA? Even Bush couldn't help but
grudgingly acknowledge climate change as a fact at the G-8 summit in
Heiligendamm, even though he had denied it until recently. Now, this
doesn't immediately make him a Greenpeace activist, but every
beginning is difficult.

@Z: Bezahlte Krankheitstage" translates to "paid sick days" in
English.

<em>Angelika</em> 
In the last
<RBLINK>20070427#1</RBLINK>
I reported that San Francisco was the first city in America to ban
plastic bags. But San Francisco is not only ahead in terms of
environmental protection, but also when it comes to social
achievements. Since February of this year, everyone working in San
Francisco must be paid for sick days. San Francisco is once again the
first city in America to legally mandate paid sick leave at the local
level. There are no binding legal regulations on this matter at the
national level in America. It is estimated that almost half of
full-time employees in the USA (according to the press, about 57
million) do not receive a salary when they call in sick. Those most
affected are people working in low-wage jobs, even though they can
least afford the loss of income. Better companies generally grant
paid sick days, with different models depending on the company. Some
employers, for example, grant 1 to 2 days per month, which can be
accumulated up to a certain maximum limit. Yahoo allows its employees
short-term absences (a maximum of 5 consecutive days) due to their
own illness or the illness of a family member (e.g., children) up to
5 times in 12 months. If an employee at Yahoo is sick for a longer
period, the so-called "Short-Term Disability Insurance" kicks in,
which is paid for by Yahoo for the employees. Other companies do not
differentiate between vacation, illness, or absence due to doctor
visits. The employee receives a so-called "Paid Time Off" account
(Paid Time Off = paid absence), and they decide for themselves how to
use the accumulated hours (vacation or illness). San Francisco's
model works as follows: Everyone working in San Francisco (regardless
of where the company is based) receives one paid hour of sick leave
for every 30 hours worked. The accumulated time can be used for
personal illnesses, necessary doctor visits, or caring for sick
relatives or partners. It does not matter whether the employee is
full-time, part-time, or temporarily employed. The same rules apply
to workers without work permits and papers ("Undocumented Workers").
If you work for a small company (up to 10 full-time or part-time
employees), you can accumulate up to 40 hours; otherwise, 72 hours.
The hours do not expire at the end of the year, but once the maximum
limit is reached (40 or 72 hours), no more hours accumulate until a
sick leave occurs and the hours are reduced. After that, the account
can grow again up to the limit. It sounds complicated, but honestly,
it is well thought out. A cheer for San Francisco.

@Z: Mexican Polka

<pic images/mar2.ps The bar Mariachi's in the Mission>

<em>Michael</em> 
When you walk through the Mexican neighborhood "Mission" just around
the corner from us, you often hear a kind of oom-pah music coming
from passing cars or open apartment windows, which is not unlike
German folk music. If you look closer, these are just regular people
who enjoy this seemingly totally crazy music. You never know! I
thought that only existed in Germany at the Musikantenstadel.

<pic images/mariachi.ps A mariachi band on television.>

Recently, we were at a Spanish restaurant in the Mission District,
and just as we were about to order, three Mexicans in traditional
costumes came in. One had a guitar, another an accordion, and the
third a double bass (cf. "Three Chinese with the Double Bass"). After
briefly asking the owner for permission and receiving it, the three
began their loud Humpa-Dumpa music. I turned on my digital recorder
to document the scene as the waitress came to take our order. And so
today, you get to enjoy a rarity: A
<LINK>http://usarundbrief.com/68/images/mexpolka.mp3|Order in a
Spanish restaurant with polka music playing</LINK>
as MP3

<pic images/jarocho.ps A Jarocho musician in the Mission.>

Americans usually call Mexican musicians "mariachis," not knowing
that the musicians in the San Francisco Mission are mostly
"jarochos." While mariachis wear round sombreros and play with
trumpets and violins, jarochos wear cowboy hats and mostly play bass,
guitar, and accordion. So, if you hear lyrics like "See the vegetable
man / In the vegetable van / With a horn that's honking / Like a
mariachi band" by the well-known rock musician Beck in the future,
you'll know the difference.

<pic images/jar2.ps Another guitar-playing musician on a mission.>

Apropos Beck: He not only recently...
<LINK>http://youtube.com/watch?v=XEqGIZ-X-L8|At Yahoo in front of the
cafeteria</LINK>
The translation to English is: "played, but a few years ago in a
cheap but good
<LINK>http://www.dennisyang.com/archive/2005/07/18/beck-at-pancho-vil
la|Taqueria around the corner from us</LINK>
Unfortunately, we missed the surprise event, and apparently most of
the guests didn't even recognize Beck, as they were into Humpa-Dumpa
music and were busy devouring the store's legendary good burritos!

Always up close with the stars:

The translation of "Angelika und Michael" to English is "Angelika and
Michael.

