San Francisco, 12-20-2007

@Z: Christmas 2007

<pic images/rundi.ps Our Christmas card in 2007>

<em>Angelika</em>
"Happy Holidays" and "Season's Greetings" can be seen and heard
everywhere at the moment. Christmas is just around the corner, and
eager salespeople are already greeting customers with these two
phrases.

The first American "Happy Holidays" cards have also arrived by mail
at our address.
We rarely hear a "Merry Christmas" because, for several years now, the
neutral "Happy Holidays" or "Season's Greetings" has become more
common, in order not to offend people who do not celebrate the
Christian Christmas holiday.

<pic images/happyh1.ps A Japanese restaurant in San Francisco wishes "Happy Holidays".>

"Happy Holidays" and "Season's Greetings" always fit, whether
Christmas is celebrated under the Christmas tree, Hanukkah (also
known as the Jewish Festival of Lights) under the menorah, or Kwanzaa
in African-American households. If you're not familiar with the term
"Kwanzaa": It is a festival created by Maulana Karenga as an
alternative to the traditional Christmas celebration for Black
Americans, providing an opportunity to reflect on their African
roots.

<pic images/happyh2.ps In our neighborhood, Noe Valley, there are flags with the inscription "Seasons Greetings".>

Kwanzaa originated during the civil rights movement in the 1960s. It
lasts for 7 days and takes place at the end of December. However, we
personally don't know anyone who celebrates Kwanzaa. But at the post
office, there is always a nice Kwanzaa stamp available during the
Christmas season. Personally, I don't really mind whether someone
wishes me "Merry Christmas," "Happy Hanukkah," or "Happy Kwanzaa," as
long as it comes from the heart. Business owners, however, fear that
they might deter potential customers if they don't stay on neutral
ground with their holiday greetings.

Now it should be noted that the English term "Christmas" directly
includes the word Christ, while the German word "Weihnachten,"
meaning the holy night, is somewhat more subtle. "Christmas" is
actually composed of Christ's Mass. The American founding fathers
established in the Constitution with the so-called "Establishment
Clause" that no particular religion should be favored by the state.

Now this doesn't prevent the religious right, as well as the previously
mentioned Republican real estate agent in our neighborhood
(<RBLINK>20021206#7</RBLINK>) from loudly protesting that "Merry Christmas"
is disappearing from the vocabulary and therefore the Christian West is
doomed. Perhaps a somewhat extreme view.

<pic images/loonie.ps The republican realtor in our neighborhood has a fitting saying in his shop window.>

On the other hand, I can only laugh at some of the linguistic
excesses used by politically correct people. When the "Christmas
Tree" suddenly becomes the "Holiday Tree" and the Christmas party at
Yahoo! turns into the "Year End Party," it does remind one a bit of
the old East German times. Back then, christmas angels were also called
"Year End Figures".

When I was still working in the Tenderloin, we once had a somewhat
eccentric manager who thought that the delicate souls of children
would be harmed if we didn't refer to angels as "year-end figurines."
This seemed a bit absurd, as these children were growing up in one of
the worst neighborhoods in San Francisco. They were dealing with
poverty, drugs, and violence and didn't care much about politically
correct terminology.

<pic images/ctreeauto2.ps The intrepid newsletter reporters are hauling their Christmas tree home.>

In any case, we wish you, from the bottom of our hearts, and all-encompassingly:
Merry Christmas, whatever you celebrate!

Angelika und Michael
