San Francisco, 02-03-2008

@Z: At The Shooting Range

<pic images/jarms1.ps The intrepid newsletter reporter is shooting with a 9-millimeter handgun.>

<em>Michael</em> 
When a colleague asked me one day if I wanted to go shooting with him
over the weekend, I naturally agreed.
We have previously reported (<RBLINK>20010117#1</RBLINK>)
that in America, it is quite normal for
private individuals to have handguns in their homes.

Shooting ranges, such as for example, 
<LINK>http://www.jacksonarms.com|"Jackson Arms"</LINK>
in South San Francisco, not far from the supermarket "Costco",
offer opportunities for practice.

Now, my aforementioned colleague owns a handgun of the type
<LINK>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Springfield_Armory_XD|Springfield XD-9</LINK>
and we properly packed it into a box secured with a padlock, loaded the box into the
trunk of our car and sped 10 minutes down the highway heading south to
the shooting range.
In California, a firearm must, as previously mentioned (<RBLINK>20030801#2</RBLINK>),
be unloaded, transported
separately from the ammunition, and in a locked container. It must not be kept
in the glove compartment to prevent the idea of blowing away other
road users in a fit of rage.

<pic images/jarms2.ps Did I really hit it?>

At the shooting range, we had to hand over our California driver's
licenses and sign a form to accept the club's rules. My colleague had been
there before and was therefore classified as a "Coach" (trainer). The
instructor led us to the end of hallway with the gun and a
practice round, and we went through the loading and unloading
process. I had spent some time in the military many years ago, so
I was already familiar with everything, and it went quickly.

<pic images/jarms3.ps At the shooting range "Jackson Arms">

In two sections, separated from the entrance area by double doors, there
were eight shooting chutes each. These areas, open at the front and
back, were about 10 square feet in size and had a small table on
which you could place the gun and load the magazine with bullets.
We were given targets that either showed rings with numbers or human
silhouettes. These were attached with clips to a cart that ran on
wire cables and could be moved 30 to 100 feet onto the shooting
range at the push of a button.

Our instructor explained that you are not allowed to wave a loaded
gun around or go back to the cashier area from the shooting range.
Additionally, randomly shooting at the side walls of the shooting
lane will result in a "strike." For the first "strike," you receive a
warning, and for the second, you must leave the shooting range and
can only return the next day. Naturally, all of us were well behaved.
We recorded everything and put it on
<LINK>https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uBqA4aixm30kkk|Youtube</LINK>.

We had a hell of a time, each firing around 60 shots, and found out
that it's not so easy to hit a person at a distance of 10 meters with
a 9mm gun. The thing has quite a recoil, and you really have to aim
carefully and hold steady to hit the target.

@Z: Primaries - Who will be the next president?

<pic images/obama1.ps Obama supporters in the Castro District in San Francisco>

<em>Angelika</em> 
The American election campaign machine is in full swing, and for
months the media have been bombarding us with forecasts, debates, and
commercials of the candidates for the American presidency. At the
end of the primaries, two candidates emerge, one for the Republican
Party and one for the Democratic Party -- and one of them will become
the President of the USA in the actual elections in November.
Usually, interest in these primaries is relatively low, and voter
turnout is extremely low, but this year everything looks different.

TODO

This is partly because there is currently no clear favorite among
either the Republicans or the Democrats. Among the Democrats, Hillary
Clinton and Barack Obama are engaged in an exciting race. Although
their political concepts do not differ significantly, many Democratic
voters are wondering whom they should vote for. Should it be the
young, charismatic Barack Obama, the Senator from the state of
Illinois, who promises to unite the country across all political
divides? Or perhaps Hillary Clinton, who repeatedly emphasizes her
thorough knowledge of the White House and the Washington
establishment, but also carries the baggage of her husband Bill
Clinton?

Many voters are apprehensive about replacing the Bush dynasty with a
Clinton dynasty, especially since no one really knows what strings
Bill Clinton is pulling behind the scenes. The historical dimension
is also important to many voters: for the first time in U.S. history,
either a woman or a Black person has a chance at the highest office
in the country. And many already see Barack Obama as the
reincarnation of John F. Kennedy, as he excites the masses regardless
of skin color, age, and income, at least as it seems in San
Francisco.

<pic images/hillary3.ps A staunch supporter of Hillary Clinton>

Among the Republicans, the former Vietnam veteran and long-time
Senator from Arizona, John McCain, and the millionaire businessman
and former Governor of Massachusetts, Mitt Romney, are leading. For
weeks, the country debated whether the Mormon Romney is even
electable due to his religious affiliation. Romney's Mormon status is
particularly problematic for the religious right, which predominantly
votes Republican. The former Baptist pastor and former Governor of
Arkansas, Mike Huckabee, is also holding his ground, as he is
particularly appreciated by the conservative-religious base. So far,
primaries have been held in 7 states, but everyone is now eagerly
awaiting February 5th, the so-called "Super Tuesday," when primaries
will take place in 22 more states.

The hellishly complicated system of primaries I have briefly...
<RBLINK>20040826#7</RBLINK>
The text translates to:

"described, but today I will try to explain it more precisely. In
principle, in American primaries, the citizen does not directly cast
their vote for their favored candidate; instead, they elect delegates
who then determine the presidential candidate at the respective party
conventions.

Some ballots therefore do not list the candidates, but only the
delegates. The number of delegates a state is allowed to send to the
party conventions is determined by the population density of the
respective state. There are different methods for converting the
number of votes cast into delegates.

The Democratic Party strictly follows the proportional method,
meaning that if the Democratic Party from state X is allowed to send,
for example, 100 delegates to the convention and Candidate A secures
70 percent of the votes, Candidate A receives 70 delegates. The
Republican Party leaves it up to the individual states to decide
whether to use the proportional method or the "winner-takes-all"
approach (where the candidate with the most votes receives all the
delegates).
<em>alle</em> 
The translation to English is: "Delegates) are being proceeded with.

In these primaries, the Republicans end up with a total of 2,380
delegates and the Democrats with 4,049. At least according to the
current situation, as Florida's and Michigan's votes are not being
counted for the Democrats at the moment, because the Democratic Party
stripped both states of their delegates due to their unauthorized
early elections. Hillary Clinton would like to reverse this punitive
action, as she won in Florida and Michigan. To be nominated at the
convention, the Republican candidate needs the votes of 1,191 (out of
2,380) delegates, and the Democratic candidate needs 2,025 (out of
4,049).

<pic images/hillary2.ps A supporter of Hillary Clinton in San
Francisco>

Interesting are the delegates who are not bound by the primary
election results but instead cast their votes at the party
conventions according to their own discretion. These are usually
party officials and elected representatives. The Democrats amusingly
call these delegates "superdelegates," while the Republicans simply
refer to them as "unpledged delegates." The Democrats are sending 796
of these superdelegates to their convention in Denver in August,
while the Republicans have 463 at their convention in Minneapolis/St.
Paul. Generally, the superdelegates do not have much impact, but this
year they could become the deciding factor for the Democrats if the
race between Obama and Clinton remains neck and neck.

<pic images/obama3.ps The entire San Francisco is hot for Obama.>

It is also interesting whether the individual states hold "primaries"
or "caucuses." You can think of primaries as regular elections.
Voters go to their polling station and cast their vote on a specific
day. There are closed and open primaries. In closed primaries, only
registered party members are allowed to vote. However, the
registration process is often quite straightforward. Democrats vote
for the Democratic candidates, and Republicans for the Republican
ones. In open primaries, party affiliation does not matter.

However, the American system also includes a mixed form, namely
partially open primaries, where independent voters may be allowed to
participate under certain circumstances. In California, for example,
the Democratic Party allows independent voters to participate, while
the Republican Party prohibits it. This might surprise you, but the
Republican Party fears that the less conservative candidate of their
party might win in California, as the state has a high proportion of
independent voters who are considered more moderate. An American
acquaintance even told me that her friends, who lean more towards the
Democratic side, register as Republicans in California to influence
the selection of the Republican candidate.

In English, the text translates to:

"Under 'Caucus,' you should imagine a party meeting at the local
level. People meet, for example, in schools and debate which
candidate is best suited, and later, usually in a public vote,
determine the favorite. The corresponding delegates are then sent to
the higher-level meetings at the county and state levels, to
ultimately determine the electors for the national party convention.
However, the method of the 'Caucus' is increasingly falling behind.
Only about one-third of the American states still conduct 'Caucuses.'

<pic images/obama2.ps The translation to English is: "Grandma Meume
is also for Obama.>

Something peculiar about the primary election system is that the
primaries do not all take place on the same day, but are staggered
between January and July. New Hampshire and Iowa traditionally vote
first because New Hampshire's laws stipulate that their primary must
be held a week before any other primary. This results in smaller
states with relatively small and homogeneous populations (in Iowa,
for example, white farmers dominate the demographics) having
significant influence on the initial selection of presidential
candidates. This irritates more populous states like Florida and
California, leading to a trend of increasingly earlier primaries.

You may remember that initially 9 Democrats and 11 Republicans
entered the race. Currently, among the Democrats, only Hillary
Clinton, Barack Obama, and Mike Gravel, who no longer appears in
debates or in the press, are left to choose from. Among the
Republicans, John McCain, Mitt Romney, Mike Huckabee, and Ron Paul
are still in the race, and as mentioned, California will not vote
until Tuesday. The field of candidates thins out relatively quickly
after the first primaries because campaigning in the USA is extremely
expensive, and candidates who receive few votes have difficulty
raising funds to continue their campaigns.

No one throws their money out the window and continues to support a
candidate who no longer has a realistic chance. However, people like
John Edwards (Democrat) or Dennis Kucinich (Democrat) or even Rudy
Giuliani (Republican) could have certainly received votes in
California. I know many who wanted to vote for John Edwards or
Kucinich (the most left-leaning candidate) on Tuesday and now can't
do so. It even goes so far that some Californians who have already
voted by mail and, for example, gave their vote to Edwards, are now
left in the lurch because their vote no longer counts since Edwards
is no longer in the race.

<pic images/obama5.ps In this beautiful Victorian house, there also
lives an Obama supporter.>

By the way, anyone who thinks that a Democrat is guaranteed to move
into the White House as President is mistaken. Especially if McCain
secures the nomination for the Republicans, he could very well win
the election later on. John McCain embodies what Americans like,
particularly those in the middle of the country. He is a former
Vietnam veteran who survived captivity and torture in Vietnam, and
for this reason, he is a strong opponent of torture. And although he
voted for the Iraq War and supported Bush in this regard, many see
his experiences in Vietnam and his long military career as an
advantage in resolving the mess in Iraq.

He is also considered pragmatic, speaks plainly, and is known for
acting in a non-partisan manner, all qualities that are particularly
appreciated by the more moderate conservatives as well as independent
voters. For instance, he advocates for a humane solution to the
problem of illegal immigrants in the country and attempted, together
with the staunch Democrat Ted Kennedy, to push a bill on this issue
through Congress and the Senate, which ultimately failed.

<pic images/obamacampaign.ps A postcard with Barack Obama's
campaign.>

On the other hand, he is quite conservative. He is against abortion
and wants to make the tax cuts introduced by Bush permanent. Those
hoping for a Democratic president should keep their fingers crossed
that Mitt Romney wins the nomination for the Republicans, because
according to polls, the chances for the Democratic candidate increase
if the opponent is Romney and not McCain. It's just a shame that we
can't vote, because my vote would go to Obama.

@Z: Autokauf

<pic images/rakete.ps The Perlman successor "Rocket>

<em>Michael</em> 
How do you buy a used car from a private seller in the USA? A few
months ago, we bought a PERLMAN successor and can share our
experiences with you today.

What kind of car should it be? I recommend Japanese cars from the
brands Honda and Toyota. In America, Honda sells the more expensive
models under the name "Acura," and Toyota presents them as "Lexus."
Both are excellent brands that I highly recommend if you need
durable, well-equipped, and absolutely reliable luxury vehicles.

Certainly! Here's the translation to English:

"Yes, I'm not a fan of German cars. They are overpriced, rated as
unreliable by 'Consumer Reports' (the American equivalent of
'Stiftung Warentest'), and recently have shown serious manufacturing
defects. One of my colleagues bought an S-Class Mercedes, and after a
few years, the trunk was rusted through. In California, without snow,
can you imagine that! Another colleague had to take a new Porsche
Boxster to the workshop with a broken engine after four weeks. I have
no understanding for such sloppy work. After our '91 Acura Integra
got old, we recently bought a '98 Acura Integra. Almost 10 years old,
100,000 miles on the clock, but it runs like hell with its 170
horsepower. And we also bought the PERLMAN when it was 7 and drove it
for 10 years without any significant problems!

First of all, you need to negotiate a price with the seller. The
standard value for a used car is listed in the "Kelly Blue Book,"
which is available for free online at kbb.com. You enter the make,
model, and year, and also add extras like a sunroof or air
conditioning. In America, 90% of people drive automatic cars, as
manual transmission is less in demand. However, anyone who can really
drive, which is only about 10% of Americans, drives cars with manual
transmission.

The condition of the vehicle is either "Excellent," "Good," "Fair,"
or "Poor," depending on how dented the car is and what flaws it has.
Furthermore, a distinction is made between "Trade-in Value" (what the
dealer offers when you trade in your old car), "Private Party Value"
(the price you can ask as a private seller), and "Suggested Retail
Value" (the price used car dealers can charge).

<pic images/title11.ps (#1) Das "Certificate of Title" eines
Kraftfahrzeugs wird im Englischen als "vehicle title" oder "car
title" bezeichnet. Es ist ein offizielles Dokument, das den
rechtmäßigen Eigentümer eines Fahrzeugs ausweist.>

To find out if the car has been involved in accidents, failed
emissions tests, was stolen at some point, frequently bought/sold, or
has had any other issues, the company "Carfax" offers an information
service on the internet. You pay $29.95 and can then check as many
vehicles as you want using their VIN ("Vehicle Identification
Number") for a month. Not bad, but not flawless either, as Carfax,
for example, did not know that our PERLMAN had already been in an
accident.
<RBLINK>20010905#6</RBLINK>
.

After concluding the price negotiations, a decision is made.
<LINK>http://www.dmv.ca.gov/forms/reg/reg135.htm|Bill of Sale"
translates to English as "Bill of Sale." It is a legal document that
records the transfer of ownership of an item from a seller to a
buyer.</LINK>
Translate to English: a form that can be downloaded as a PDF from the
California Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV). It is only half a page
long and you only need to fill in the names and addresses of the
seller and buyer, the purchase price, and the VIN. The seller signs
it. To exclude liability, you should draft a document that includes
the phrase "Sold 'As-Is' without Warranty.

The buyer then pays. But how? You don't just carry a few thousand
dollars around in your pocket, and besides, everyone is afraid of
counterfeit money because dollar bills have very few security
features. Additionally, cash leaves no traceable records in the
banking industry, and proving how much money actually changed hands
is almost impossible afterwards if disputes arise.

American checks for larger amounts are not accepted by anyone who is
reasonably sane. They are often not covered and "bounce," which means
that the recipient simply does not receive the money. Even if
everything goes well, it often takes up to a week for a check to
"clear," meaning the money from the transaction arrives in the
recipient's account. Usually, the money arrives earlier, but it
cannot be withdrawn because the transaction has not yet been
confirmed. It's hair-raising.

<pic images/cashcheck.ps (#3) A cashier's check.>

For car purchases, people use so-called "Cashier's Checks." The buyer
goes to the bank (which is open on Saturdays here in the USA),
requests a Cashier's Check from the teller for the negotiated car
price, and has it made out to the name of the recipient. The amount
on the check is immediately deducted from the buyer's account. This
ensures that the check does not bounce. The check is signed by the
teller, not the buyer. During the purchase, the buyer hands the
Cashier's Check to the seller, who then deposits it at their bank.
One should not lose the check, as it cannot be easily canceled. There
have been fraud cases with counterfeit Cashier's Checks, so sometimes
the seller asks the buyer to accompany them to the bank to deposit
the check. This way, any potential fraud would be immediately
detected.

In order for a car to legally change ownership, the seller must sign
the vehicle title, known as the "Certificate of Title" (illustration
(#1)), twice. Once to release the car ("the signature below releases
interest in the vehicle") and once to confirm the stated mileage.
Additionally, the buyer also signs to prove that both parties are
aware of how far the vehicle has traveled. The "Certificate of Title"
used to be pink and was called the "Pink Slip." This should not be
confused with the termination notice for workers, also called a "Pink
Slip," which was also printed on pink paper. "To get the pink slip"
means "to be fired" in America. But I digress.

Later, for a while, a colorful mixture of colors could be seen on the
vehicle registration document, and it was called the "Rainbow Title."
Nowadays, it is pink again with a blue border, and people usually
just call it the "Title." At the very bottom, there is a signature
field for a "Lienholder," but this is only relevant if the car
doesn't actually belong to the seller but to the bank, for example,
because it was financed. Otherwise, this field simply remains empty.

The "Title" is transferred to the buyer's possession after the seller
has removed the top part with the red boxes. The seller fills out
this form and sends it by mail to the Department of Motor Vehicles
(DMV) so that they are informed of the transaction. This is important
because the responsibility for the vehicle (accidents, tickets) is
thereby transferred from the seller to the buyer.

<pic images/title2.ps (#2) The back of the "Rainbow Title," which the
buyer fills out to register the car.>

When a private individual sells a car, they must ensure that a
certificate for an emissions test ("Smog Test") passed no more than
three months ago is available. The DMV has this data electronically,
making it impossible to cheat. The buyer has the right to the
corresponding certificate but must explicitly request it from the
seller.

On the back of the vehicle registration certificate (#2), the buyer
enters their information and takes it to the DMV office. There, they
pay a re-registration fee (about $30) and a "Use Tax" on the purchase
price. This tax is as high as the sales tax in California (8.5% in
San Francisco). When buying a car from a dealer, the sales tax is
typically added by the dealer, but since the insatiable state of
California also wants to see money from private vehicle sales, the
DMV collects this tax. It adds up: For a sale price of $5,000, you
pay $425 to the DMV, which hurts the wallet! The DMV employees ask
the buyer for the sale price, and if the buyer lies and the price is
completely unreasonable, the value set in the "Kelly's Blue Book" is
used.

The seller should insist that the buyer registers the car as soon as
possible. Any tickets will still go to the seller until then.
Although the seller is not liable, they must explain to the DMV each
time that the car has already been sold, and the aforementioned form
sent by the seller is solid proof. The buyer is required to register
the car within 10 days, or else they will face penalties. It also
happens that the seller asks the buyer to go to the DMV with them, so
the seller can see with their own eyes that the car is re-registered
and the transaction is completed.

The DMV retains the title, by the way, and sends a new one to the new
owner within two weeks. On this new title, the signature fields are
blank again, and the new owner can later sell the car again using the
same procedure.

It is also common to have the car inspected by a mechanic for a price
of about $50. The potential buyer bears the cost. Of course, you can
never be completely sure that you won't be ripped off, which is why I
recommend conducting such transactions preferably with colleagues.

The threshold for committing fraud is relatively high, after all,
everyone knows where the other works and can cause quite a stir if
problems arise unexpectedly. I bought a colleague's car through
Yahoo, and everything went smoothly. It was her husband's favorite
car, but since she couldn't drive a manual transmission, he had to
sell it!

@Z: San Francisco Views: Hunters Point

<pic images/sohpstreet.ps Scene from the film "Straight Out of
Hunters Point>

<em>Michael</em> 
In our series "San Francisco Views," today we visit the notorious
twin neighborhood "Bayview"/"Hunters Point." It is located so far
south that no tourist ever wanders there, and that's a good thing.
Long-time residents of San Francisco cringe at just hearing the name
of the neighborhood, would never drive there under any circumstances,
and strongly advise any newcomer against even approaching the area.

<pic images/hunters-point-sf-openstreetmap.ps Hunters Point is
located on the southeastern outskirts of San Francisco.>

The book on Bayview/Hunters Point (illustration (#3)) from the
well-known neighborhood series, which dedicates a volume to each
district of San Francisco, only features old black-and-white photos
and reminisces about past times when Hunters Point was still a
relatively normal working-class area with a shipyard.

<pic images/sfhpbook.ps (#3) The book "San Francisco's Bayview
Hunters Point>

<pic images/hppower.ps The substation in Hunters Point.>

After World War II, however, the shipyard was immediately closed
down. The predominantly black shipyard workers were dismissed and
housed in barrack-like social housing buildings in the neighborhood.
Over the years, the conditions deteriorated dramatically, and by the
1970s, a veritable slum had developed, where rival street gangs were
causing trouble.

<pic images/sohptitle.ps The film "Straight Out of Hunters Point>

<pic images/sohpturf.ps The corridors in the evening news>

The documentation
<LINK>http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8EAvqpM2cXU|Straight out of
Hunters Point</LINK>
It provides quite a good insight into the catastrophic conditions
there. Although there is a handful of dedicated people trying to turn
the neighborhood around, it is not easy for the residents to escape
the vortex of violence and drugs. And since in America the schools of
a neighborhood are mainly funded by the residents through property
taxes, the schools in Hunters Point look like a mess. The children
learn nothing, and the parents don't care -- the next generation of
gangsters is pre-programmed.
<LINK>http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q2nqOds6YgM|The translation of
"Musik-Video 'Straight out of Hunters Point'" to English is "Music
video 'Straight out of Hunters Point'.</LINK>
Some gangsta rappers from the run-down neighborhood boast about their
misdeeds.

Although news reports about shootings in Hunters Point no longer
appear daily, it's practically impossible for an ordinary citizen to
drive around there. The newsletter reporter, known as a
thrill-seeker, ventured in anyway with a car, camera, and GPS--on a
Sunday morning, when the worst criminals are known to still be
asleep. Some were still around and looked somewhat puzzled. A car
with two menacing-looking figures even turned around and followed the
reporter's car, but he had already taken his photos and sped away at
full throttle.

<pic images/poproj1.ps The "Project" in Potrero Hill>

The phenomenon of completely run-down neighborhoods in the USA is
often associated with the so-called "projects." In this type of
public housing, barrack-like buildings were simply placed in solid
residential areas and populated with marginalized social groups. Much
to the dismay of the local residents, of course, who saw the value of
their homes plummet to dizzying depths. Urban planners hoped that the
newcomers would integrate, but they found that after a few years, the
buildings became totally dilapidated and the crime rate in the
neighborhood skyrocketed.

<pic images/poproj2.ps Green and orange houses in the "Project" in
Potrero Hill>

In the "Potrero Hill" neighborhood in San Francisco, there is also
such a "project," and it's still quite lively there today. Anyone who
takes the 48 bus, which I have dubbed the "adventure bus," from the
Caltrain station on 22nd Street to Noe Valley will experience one or
two adventures, especially in the evenings.

Nowadays, "projects" are usually smaller houses that are built with
more architectural sophistication. There's one on Cesar Chavez Street
around the corner from us that seems to be doing reasonably well--at
least better than ten years ago when we moved to San Francisco and
the area was called the "death zone." The smaller construction style
also has the advantage that residents tend to identify more with
their homes and don't let everything deteriorate with an "I don't
care" attitude.

<pic images/hpchurch.ps A small church in Hunters Point.>

<pic images/hpschool.ps It actually looks quite idyllic in Hunters
Point, but only on Sunday mornings.>

And Hunters Point even has some nice areas where residents get
involved and take a stand against the bleak everyday life of the
projects.
<LINK>http://youtube.com/watch?v=t48cvDtPtZo|The video "Hunters Point
Heroes</LINK>
It introduces people who carry out small projects (e.g., creating a
small garden), achieve minor improvements, and are immediately
celebrated as everyday heroes. America and its optimism!

@Z: Indian tribes and their casinos

Arnie is campaigning to vote 'yes'.

<em>Michael</em> 
Currently, commercials are haunting television, in which even our
beloved...

Indians? Casinos? What?" you might be asking now, and I think I need
to elaborate a bit. Not so long ago, the indigenous people, the
Indians, lived on the American continent. Then the Spaniards came
first...
<RBLINK>20000526#1</RBLINK>
..and later all sorts of other people settled on the land of the
Native Americans. They resisted vehemently in some cases, but
ultimately succumbed to the Europeans, who plied the Native Americans
with firewater and took their land from them in not always fair ways.

Nowadays, Native Americans either live integrated into society or
isolated in so-called reservations.
<RBLINK>20061011#2</RBLINK>
That goes so-so, their huts are quite poor, and people hang around on
the street, just a 'No Motivation/No Future' kind of society. Since
they don't make a lot of money from the few pearl necklaces and straw
baskets they produce, they lack the funds to build schools and
provide their children with a better future.

In 1988, the American Congress came up with a procedure to help these
tribes generate income more quickly: they allowed them to operate
independent casinos on reservations under the "Indian Gaming
Regulatory Act" (IGRA). The profits were not subject to taxes and
could be invested in the development of the reservations. A casino is
practically a license to print money, and the cash flowed abundantly
because Americans gamble like crazy.

This, however, brought other interest groups into play, who did not
see why ordinary people should pay a heap of taxes while the Native
Americans brought in money tax-free by the shovelful. Nowadays, there
are 400 Native American casinos spread across America, generating a
total of 18 billion dollars annually!

A years-long back-and-forth ensued, resulting in the tax burden on
the Native Americans being gradually increased. California recently
even brokered a deal whereby the Native Americans will pay three
times as much in taxes as before.


But for some, that is still not enough, and that's why especially
regular casinos and teachers' associations (which benefit from more
money in the state treasury) are mobilizing against the rigged
contract. Both groups apparently have tons of cash, as they are
constantly broadcasting...

As always, there are two sides to the story of the
<LINK>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Indian_gaming|Indian Gaming"
refers to the gambling operations conducted by Native American tribes
in the United States. These operations are typically regulated under
the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act and can include casinos, bingo
halls, and other gaming activities on tribal lands.</LINK>
What amuses me about the whole back and forth, however, are the
completely transparently manipulative commercials, which were
technically sophisticated in filming and editing, but the content
shows that amateur demagogues were at work here. We can't vote
anyway, but we still watch the commercials with interest.

@Z: Chicago

<pic images/chictrain.ps The elevated railway in Chicago>

<em>Angelika</em> 
There aren't many American cities that really blow you away, as many
get lost in the monotony of suburbs and skyscrapers (San Francisco
and New York are, of course, not included here). Since many people
have repeatedly told us how amazing Chicago is and I had never set
foot in this city, we thought, why not just fly there for New Year's
Eve?

Michael had actually been there once before, 20 years ago, but he
could only vaguely remember that he and his friend Christian had
wanted to visit the zoo in Chicago. However, upon exiting the subway,
they walked in the wrong direction and ended up in a rough
neighborhood that shocked them so much that they never made it to the
zoo.

<pic images/chicbrown.ps A brownstone house in Chicago>

Now you must know that Chicago is colloquially known as the "windy
city," which didn't initially impress me much as a true North German.
However, in winter, the temperatures there are similar to those in
Germany, and there's snow as well. So, we reconsidered and stocked up
on winter jackets and boots. A wise decision, because on New Year's
Eve it promptly snowed, and it was cold in Chicago.

<pic images/chicpuffball.ps Angelika, snugly wrapped in her puffer
anorak at a subway station in Chicago.>

Nonetheless, we really liked the city. Not only is there a great
subway system (not a given in America), but it even has the romantic
variant where the trains partially run as elevated trains through
downtown and other neighborhoods. And that in the truest sense of the
word, because the system is quite old in some parts. The mix of the
most modern architecture alongside old, still ornate skyscrapers and
historic brownstone buildings gives the city a special touch. You can
also find charming little neighborhoods like in San Francisco,
without chain stores but with interesting, independent shops and good
restaurants in Chicago. The Wicker Park neighborhood, for example,
reminded us of Valencia Street in San Francisco.
<RBLINK>20070820#3</RBLINK>
By the way, Chicago has a lake ("Lake Michigan") right in the middle
of the city (hence the wind), which is surely wonderful in the
summer, but not suitable for delicate Californian plants in the
winter. We spent hours in the heated "Art Institute," an impressive,
enormous museum that offers everything from European and American
paintings to photography and contemporary modern art, delighting the
heart of any art lover. So if you're planning your next trip to
America, don't hesitate to put Chicago on your list.

<pic images/chicmuemmel.ps Angelika curled up on the windowsill of
the hotel room.>

Good evening, everyone!

The translation of "Angelika & Michael" to English is "Angelika &
Michael," as these are proper names and typically do not change when
translated between languages.

