San Francisco, 05-02-2008

@Z: Caught By a Red Light Camera

<pic images/pn3.ps (#20) The intrepid newsletter reporter gets caught by a red light camera.>

<em>Michael</em> 
During our stay in the USA, which has now lasted more than 10 years,
none of us has ever received a traffic ticket. Well, okay, parking tickets
don't count, as they are as much a part of everyday life in San
Francisco as brushing your teeth. And we don't drive particularly
slowly either, but the speed traps on the side of the highway are so
obvious that only the absent-minded would fail to notice them.

TODO

Automatic camera radar traps are illegal in the USA, but
unfortunately, there are more and more speed cameras at traffic
lights, which apparently are allowed due to a legal loophole. And
recently, a letter from the "Department of Traffic Enforcement"
arrived, stating that our new car, the so-called "Rocket," ran a red
light on the east side of the Bay in the Emeryville district (Alameda
County).

<pic images/blitz1.ps The scammer intersection in Emeryville.>

The letter included a web address where one could watch a video
illustrating the sequence of events. Indeed, the video showed the
rocket, driven by Michael, who had made a quick right turn on red
after shopping at Ikea, which is generally allowed in the USA.
However, one must come to a brief stop beforehand, similar to a stop
sign. Apparently, the driver wanted to get home as quickly as
possible at the time of the incident to assemble the newly purchased
Ikea furniture. In any case, he interpreted the rule a bit too
liberally and sped around the corner without stopping. The flash
video (see below)

The racing newsletter reporter doesn't stop before making a right
turn at a red light.

The "ticket" wasn't exactly cheap, 381 dollars! The city of
Emeryville, a thoroughly rundown East Bay rat hole, apparently needs
every cent and is happy to squeeze innocent visitors from the world
city of San Francisco, who don't want to waste time in the
godforsaken place and quickly pass through!

<pic images/blitz2.ps The video camera of the Alameda police
officers>

No worries, one can afford it. But the problem with such an offense
is, of course, that you get a point on your California driving
record, which the car insurance company finds out about, and they
promptly raise the liability premiums. This can amount to thousands
of dollars a year!

<pic images/ticourt.ps The court is being lenient and allows
attendance at a traffic school so that the car insurance company does
not find out about the incident.>

To avert this misfortune, there is the option to pay a slightly
higher fee ($410) and spend a day in a traffic course ("Traffic
School"). While this doesn't directly save money, you still receive a
point, but your car insurance doesn't find out about it. However,
this is only possible if you haven't used this trick in the last 18
months.

<pic images/tipay.ps The insatiable court charges an additional fee
if one attends traffic school.>

The training lasts 8 hours and is conducted by specialized and
licensed private companies, which you can choose from a list. To
prevent people from getting bored while studying, there are even
comedy schools where comedians present the dry traffic rules with
humor! Personally, I prefer to sit at home and drink my beer, so I
chose an online school.

With $20 via credit card, I enrolled in the course and was then
presented with page after page of traffic rules, videos of severe
traffic accidents, and animations of typical traffic situations. It
mainly focuses on the consequences of drunk driving, uncontrolled
speeding, and the so-called "road rage," where people become so angry
behind the wheel that they yell at other drivers and insult them with
obscene hand gestures (which in the USA...
<em>nicht</em> 
The translation to English is: "is punishable) and to shoot around
with pistols from the glove compartment. The latter, however, is
illegal.

You can pause the course as often as you like, but altogether I've
already spent about eight hours in front of the computer. You have to
be as watchful as a hawk and read the text on the pages very
carefully, because after each chapter there is an interim exam where
you have to answer 10 multiple-choice questions without any mistakes.
If you get one or more wrong, another ten partially different
questions will follow.

To ensure that the driving school knows that the same test-taker is
sitting in front of the computer the entire time and hasn't handed
over the task to a friend, you have to answer ten personal questions
at the beginning of the course (Figure #13): how many siblings you
have, what your favorite sport is, and so on. Then, at random
intervals during the course, one of these questions will pop up, and
you must know the correct answer within 90 seconds. Since, for
security reasons, I never answer such questions truthfully, I
actually had to save the answers I provided externally!

<pic images/idsq.ps (#13) Ten questions whose answers you need to
know for the attendance check.>

Before the final exam, some courts, such as the Oakland court
responsible for my case, require that the examinee also be identified
by name. To do this, one can either go to a certified testing center,
present an ID, and take the test there, or be identified online with
the help of one of the three major credit bureaus. In...
<RBLINK>20040518#4</RBLINK>
We have already reported on these institutions that, similar to
Schufa in Germany, meticulously track the credit history of every
citizen. To identify the person being checked, three multiple-choice
questions pop up, the answers to which should only be known by the
person in whose name the ticket was issued. For example, they might
ask at which of the following four banks one has taken out a
mortgage. Or what the last four digits of the person's secret Social
Security number are, with the correct number to be selected from a
list of four given options.

The questions in the final exam are not easy. One example was: How
many fatal traffic accidents were there in the USA in 2005 that were
caused by drunk driving? The options are (a) 16,000, (b) 25,000, (c)
5,000, or (d) 10,000. Or: "What should you be aware of if your car
breaks down and you park it on the side of the road?" Possible
answers are: (a) Watch out for tall grass, (b) open the trunk, (c)
park the car facing oncoming traffic, or (d) turn on the high beams.
If you haven't read the text beforehand, you're out of luck. Would
you have known? The answers will be in the next newsletter.

I passed the final exam with 88%, while 80% was required. I'm quite a
clever little fox who can remember numbers pretty well, but how
someone with a bit less in the brain is supposed to manage that is
beyond me. After passing the exam, the driving school sends you an
official-looking paper certificate by mail, which you then send to
the court by mail upon receipt. This then concludes the process and
keeps quiet towards the insurance company. You can check online if
and when this finally happens. Let's hope it works out...

@Z: American housing market in crisis

<pic images/forsale0.ps The housing market in the USA is collapsing.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
For quite some time, Michael has been predicting that the American
housing market would eventually collapse. He regularly sent newspaper
articles to the homeowners among his colleagues that supported his
hypothesis. We are considered a bit of an anomaly since we still
rent. In overpriced cities like San Francisco and New York, where
house and land prices, along with the property taxes to be paid, have
long taken on surreal proportions, renting is indeed the more
financially sensible solution.

But owning a home is part of the American dream. According to common
belief, those who rise to the ranks of homeowners have made it into
the middle class. American campaign slogans always include promises
to increase the percentage of homeowners, especially among
minorities.

<pic images/forsale1.ps Real estate offers no longer entice a dog out
from behind the stove This is a German idiom meaning that real estate
offers are no longer attractive or interesting to anyone.>

Now, after the internet bubble burst in 2001, the housing bubble has
also recently burst, causing international stock markets to tremble.
The lamenting is widespread, although we were surprised that the
whole situation lasted as long as it did. It was clear that house
prices couldn't continue to rise at such a frantic pace, if only
because of the laws of supply and demand. But the unyielding optimism
of many Americans, low interest rates, greedy real estate agents, and
unscrupulous bankers who smelled big money and issued risky loans,
blindly led to the crisis. Would-be homeowners were enticed with
fantasy terms.

Many buyers paid nothing upfront when purchasing a house and opted
for adjustable-rate mortgages. In these cases, the interest rate is
often initially unbeatable for the first one or two years and then
rises rapidly. There were also models where the borrower initially
only had to pay the interest on the borrowed amount, but not the
principal itself. But why did the financial institutions engage in
such risky maneuvers? As long as house prices were rising, everything
was fine, because even if the homeowner could no longer make their
payments, the bank would be pleased, as the house would revert to the
bank, which would then sell it off at a much higher price.

<pic images/forsale3.ps Even nobody wants this yuppie bunker.>

Additionally, the so-called "Home Equity Loans" became extremely
popular. These are loans that homeowners took out based on the
increased value of their homes. Originally, these loans were used,
for example, to finance home improvement projects. However, during
the euphoria of the boom years, many people spent the money on other
consumer goods or simply to afford a higher standard of living. But
as house prices continue to plummet, resulting in millions of
Americans having mortgages that are now higher than the actual value
of their homes, the equation unfortunately no longer works out.
Credit card companies are now concerned that their customers, lacking
"Home Equity," will instead charge their expenses to their credit
cards and eventually be unable to pay them off. As a precaution, they
have significantly increased the interest rates for people who do not
pay their bills on time and are therefore considered high-risk.


The stock market tremor arose once again because the credit
institutions continued to sell the mortgages on the financial
markets. They bundled the individual loans into tradable securities,
which were then even rated as safe by the experts. However, when the
mortgage loans started to default one after another due to falling
house prices, unrest suddenly spread among investors. Credit
institutions that had been particularly eager to invest in these
actually high-risk securities suddenly incurred significant losses.
Meanwhile, caution is once again the order of the day, and banks are
no longer granting loans as freely as they used to. However, this is
currently causing the economy to stagnate. Even the eternally
consuming American has taken a hit and seems to be holding onto their
money more tightly. At least they are drinking fewer lattes and
frappuccinos, as the coffeehouse chain "Starbucks" announced this
week a profit decline of up to 28 percent.

<pic images/starbucks.ps The financially struggling customer saves
money first by cutting back on small pleasures, like a cup of coffee
at Starbucks.>

But rescue is in sight. Starting this week, the tax office, under the
directive of President Bush and the American Congress, is sending
checks to citizens to encourage them to spend more. Anyone who filed
a tax return in 2007, had an income of at least $3,000, and possesses
a Social Security number will receive up to $600 from the government
($1,200 for married couples filing jointly). An additional $300 is
added for each child under 17. However, higher earners will have to
settle for less. Most economic experts, however, doubt that these
gifted sums will turn the tide.

<pic images/stimulus1.ps But the president is sending us money ...>

<pic images/stimulus2.ps ... so that the economy is stimulated!>

According to the latest statistics released at the beginning of the
week, California, along with Florida, Arizona, and Nevada, has the
highest percentage of foreclosed homes. Interestingly, the statistics
for San Francisco look different. While homes in surrounding areas
like San Leandro, Daly City, and Fremont are being taken over by
banks one after another, this is not the case in San Francisco. Here,
house prices not only increased by 0.4 percent in March, but the
foreclosure rate was also a low 2.4 percent. There are indeed a lot
of wealthy people in San Francisco who are hardly affected by the
economic downturn, or people who have owned their homes for decades.
Additionally, many first-time homebuyers have been drawn to the
surrounding cities, as houses there are somewhat more affordable than
in San Francisco itself.

The fact that rents are rising during a housing crisis is somehow
logical, because more people are entering this market. San Francisco
is also a leader in this regard, despite low foreclosures. Rents in
San Francisco have increased by 14.4 percent compared to last year.
Somehow, we seem to be magically drawn to cities that come with high
rents!

@Z: Amerikanische Duschen" translates to "American showers" in
English.

<pic images/faucet.ps (#42) The lever that you have to pull up to
divert the water from the bathtub to the shower.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
The translation of "Ich habe ja schon einmal im" to English is "I
have already once in the".
<RBLINK>20070820#1</RBLINK>
The somewhat unusual American windows have been reported on, but
American showers also have their quirks. There have been several
amusing scenes in our apartment when German overnight guests were
baffled by our shower because they didn't know how to turn on the
water.

In older houses and simpler motels that don't have modern shower
cabins but instead have bathtubs combined with showerheads, you need
some detective skills to operate the fixtures. When you turn on the
faucet, the water initially comes out of the bathtub spout. First,
you need to determine the desired temperature by turning the knob.
Then, you have to pull the lever with the round head (see
illustration (#42)) on the bathtub faucet to redirect the water to
the showerhead.

<pic images/dusche.ps (#41) The faucet to turn the water on and off.>

The knob in illustration (#41) serves two functions: If you push it
upwards, it turns on the water. If you turn the knob to the left, so
that the arrow moves towards "H" (Hot), the water gets hotter. To the
right towards "C" (Cold), it gets colder. In some hotels, however,
you can only turn the knob, not push it upwards. You turn on the
shower by turning the knob clockwise (!). Initially, you go through
cold water, and if you keep turning, it gets warmer. Michael, who
cannot tolerate cold water at all, always stands outside the shower
in motels while he lets the shower run warm with his fingertips. Once
a comfortable temperature is reached, he gets in.

The showerheads are usually fixed to the wall, not removable, and
without a hose. It's a wonder that we manage to get clean every day.

@Z: Mandatory health insurance for employees

<pic images/hcsomenu.ps (#1) A crook restaurant simply adds an
imaginary tax.>

<em>Michael</em> 
Recently, we had lunch at the restaurant "MoMo's" in San Francisco's
Soma District and, to our surprise, found a note in small print at
the bottom of the menu: According to this, the place simply adds 3.5%
to every bill without asking, a so-called "San Francisco Health Care
Security Ordinance Service Charge" (Figure (#1)).

In fact, there has been a law in San Francisco since January 8, 2008,
that...
<LINK>http://www.sfgov.org/site/olse_index.asp?id=45168|The
translation of "Health Care Security Ordinance (HCSO)" to English is
already provided, as it is originally in English.</LINK>
Translate to English: "which requires employers to provide health
insurance for their employees if the establishment employs more than
20 people. Naturally, this doesn't sit well with the restaurants, and
they have not only filed a lawsuit against the city but also seem to
be ripping off unsuspecting guests. The waiter working at the
restaurant in question only knew that it was a 'New San Francisco
Thing' and that he hadn't seen any of the money yet.

There is certainly nothing wrong with health insurance for employees,
but there is an objection to surreptitiously adding this amount to
the bill. In that case, the restaurant should simply raise the prices
on the menu! However, it seems that some prefer to lead their guests
by the nose instead.

<pic images/hcsocheck.ps (#2) The amount is listed separately on the
invoice.>

And a few days later at the "Incanto" restaurant in our neighborhood,
we noticed a "Service Charge" of 5%, supposedly to cover the tip for
the kitchen staff. In theory, as a guest, you could deduct this
amount from the waiter's tip, but who really does that? The waiter
isn't responsible for the greedy management's schemes. The only
solution is to boycott these places for the time being; if the guests
stay away, maybe they'll get the message.

Let's face the facts: On a $50 bill, not only do you have an 8.5%
sales tax (which is $4.25) and an additional 15-20% tip for the
waiter on the total amount ($8.14 - $10.85), but also a new
restaurant fantasy tax of 3-5% ($1.50 - $2.50)? So, the $50 on the
menu becomes $67.60? Where are you going, San Francisco?

<pic images/savor.ps The restaurant "Savor" in our neighborhood also
boldly adds a dollar per guest to the bill to pay for their
employees' health insurance.>

@Z: The title "Parken am Rande des Wahnsinns" translates to "Parking
on the Edge of Madness" in English.

<pic images/scsign.ps (#3) Translation:

Top: The street sweeper comes on Tuesday between 12 and 2 PM. Bottom:
The new silly residential parking zone Z.>

<em>Michael</em> 
We have often described the catastrophic parking conditions in our
neighborhood, but recently the situation has worsened. To make
matters worse, there is now also the residential parking zone "Z,"
which is marked by appropriate traffic signs. Within this zone, you
are only allowed to park for 2 hours on weekdays from 8 a.m. to 6
p.m. if you do not have the corresponding permit on your car.

The badge is only given to those who live on the respective street.
Now, our place is on 24th Street, where there is no parking zone,
only parking meters, so we're screwed, we don't get a badge, and we
have to search in the few remaining side streets without parking
zones until we're blue in the face! Initially, only a few streets had
the regulation, but more and more residents couldn't find a parking
spot and submitted petitions to have their street included in the
nonsense as well.

We now have two cars, the old Perlman and the new rocket.
<RBLINK>20080203#3</RBLINK>
The rocket is in the garage, Perlman has to spend the night on the
street. But that also means that we can have the good old parking
games again.
<RBLINK>20010701#5</RBLINK>
The translation to English is: "Once a week, the street sweeper
comes, and then the Perlman has to be moved, otherwise there will be
a parking ticket that costs $40.


However, people are reluctant to give up a good parking spot, and
many just drive away briefly, let the street sweeper pass, and then
immediately squeeze back into the old spot. What tourists don't know,
and locals are reluctant to reveal: Even if the traffic sign
(illustration (#3)) states that the street sweeper passes through on
Tuesday between 12 and 2 PM, you can still park there during that
time frame.
<em>nachdem</em> 
The street sweeper has driven through.

Through years of time-consuming studies, I have discovered that the
street sweeper on 23rd Street, where street cleaning according to the
traffic sign takes place on Tuesdays between 12 and 2 PM, passes by
almost exactly at 12:25. I assume that the street sweeper follows a
set schedule, which is established somewhere in the secret archives
of the city of San Francisco, and which he must read, memorize, and
then eat.

Documentary video: The street sweeper is coming to our area.

Before the street sweeper, what I call wasps drive.
<RBLINK>20010701#5</RBLINK>
Here's the translation to English:

") those who distribute the parking tickets. (By the way, the
official name of these cute three-wheelers, whose drivers wear
bicycle helmets, is "Interceptor".) The trick is to move a car parked
there around 12:15, lurk nearby, and as soon as the street sweeper
passes through at 12:26, reclaim the old parking spot.

Since I always work from home on Tuesdays, I quickly leave the house
at noon, get the car, and repark it. Recently, I even made a
documentary video (see above).

<pic images/jersey.ps (#21) A prematurely grumpy desk jockey from
Jersey Street hung a nasty note on our car.>

Overregulation of this kind is sprouting up in San Francisco like
mushrooms. The former city of revolutionaries has become a home for
prematurely aged people in their late thirties who have nothing
better to do than sit in their million-dollar homes, count their
money, and start neighborhood initiatives when there are no parking
spaces. Recently, we had parked the Perlman on Jersey Street in our
neighborhood for almost a week, and technically, you're not allowed
to do that due to a relatively unknown and absurd regulation: the
maximum parking duration is 72 hours, after which you have to move
the car at least one block away. No one really adheres to this, but
sure enough, some desk jockey from Jersey Street stuck a note on our
car and accused us with harsh words (see illustration (#21)). What an
idiot!

<pic images/googbus.ps (#22) The neighborhood newspaper writes about
uncool prematurely aged people in our district who complain about the
Google buses.>

And when the company Google picks up its employees with the shuttle
in San Francisco and these buses rumble through the quiet streets at
night, there is an immediate outcry. In illustration (#22), you can
see the corresponding...
<LINK>http://www.noevalleyvoice.com/2007/July-August/Goo.html|The
translation to English is: "Announcement in the neighborhood
newspaper 'Noe Valley Voice'</LINK>
The headline, by the way, features the rarely used verb "to rankle."
Look it up in the dictionary to see what it means. Among cool people,
there is once again a tendency to move to the South American
neighborhood of Mission or even to quite run-down areas like Hunters
Point.
<RBLINK>20080203#4</RBLINK>
... to escape the wannabe alternatives in our neighborhood.

@Z: Election campaign and no end in sight

<pic images/obama4.ps The resident of this apartment in the Castro is
an Obama fan.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Currently, the Republican presidential candidate has been determined,
while Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton are still in a neck-and-neck
race for the Democrats. John McCain can be confident of his official
nomination at the Republican National Convention in the summer. For
the Democrats, this time the superdelegates will actually...
<RBLINK>20080203#2</RBLINK>
... as I already predicted in the last newsletter, will play the
decisive role.

Without the superdelegates, Clinton cannot win the nomination, even
if she overwhelmingly defeats Obama in the remaining primaries.
Clinton is fighting like a wild lioness in a cage and is taking on
increasingly unappealing traits. To appeal to white workers, a group
from which Obama has received the fewest votes so far, she sometimes
jumps onto a pickup truck and rides with a worker to a gas station,
only to lament about the high gas prices. Or she drinks a beer in a
bar in Indiana, where the next primaries will take place on Tuesday,
simultaneously with the state of North Carolina. I have never seen
anyone so in love with power. Hillary and Bill want to return to the
White House, no matter the cost.

<pic images/sprit.ps The gasoline prices have exceeded the 4-dollar
mark.>

Hillary's latest mantra is that she--like John McCain--wants to
suspend the gas tax (a mere 18.4 cents per gallon) over the summer
months so that prices temporarily drop and everyone can pump more gas
into their huge cars again. A gallon (about 3.8 liters) of gas
currently costs around $3.60 on average, which is extremely high by
American standards. Gas prices tend to rise in the summer anyway, as
demand increases because everyone drives on vacation and refineries
reach the limits of their capacities.

Experts suspect that the gasoline price will soar above four dollars
nationwide; in San Francisco, we're already paying that anyway.
Economic and environmental experts are pulling their hair out.
Firstly, the math doesn't add up, because if the tax is removed and
people drive more, demand increases, which drives prices up even
further. Secondly, this action obviously doesn't solve the problem in
the long run. Conservation and driving less are necessary, and for
that, gasoline prices should actually be raised through a tax, as
it's the only way to force consumers to change their behavior.
Thirdly, the gasoline tax is used to maintain the country's
infrastructure, which is desperately needed, as bridges and roads are
partly in a miserable condition.

To be fair, I must mention that Clinton wants to pass the tax onto
the oil companies through the back door, while McCain seemingly
doesn't care about how to fill the gap. Additionally, both of them
overlook in their adventurous proposals that such decisions cannot be
made without the approval of the Senate and the House of
Representatives. I hope that the voters see through the game.

Obama categorically rejects the proposal by McCain and Clinton
regarding the gasoline tax. However, Obama currently has entirely
different problems, as his somewhat radical pastor, from whom he has
just distanced himself, is traveling across the country in a
media-effective manner and delivering speeches that are making life
difficult for Obama. And once again, we have reached the point in the
American election campaign where it is only about platitudes, even
though there are important issues like the economic crisis, the Iraq
war, and healthcare for all that need to be discussed.

@Z: Die without inheritance tax in the year 2010

<pic images/estate.ps The taxes on an estate will be eliminated in
2010.>

<em>Michael</em> 
Just like in Germany, heirs must pay inheritance tax, the so-called
"Estate Tax," on an inheritance. However, there is an exemption limit
set at 2 million dollars.

Surviving spouses are exempt from the estate tax. However, this does
not apply to people who are not American citizens. This is the reason
why many green card holders eventually apply for American
citizenship, even though it offers few advantages other than the
ability to vote. By the way, the Germans have a...
<LINK>http://www.pinkernell.de/reviprot.htm|Agreement with the
Americans</LINK>
The phrase translates to: "which in the year 2006 grants an exemption
of $2,000,000 between German/American and German/German spouses.

The above-mentioned exemption limit for Americans of 2 million
dollars, for example when someone bequeaths money to their children,
only applies in the year 2008. Next year, 2009, it will be
temporarily raised to $3.5 million, and then in the following year,
2010, it will be completely eliminated.

And now comes the kicker: In 2011, it returns with an exemption limit
of only one million dollars! So if the American Congress does not
come together and pass a new law for the Estate Tax, also known as
the "Death Tax," dying in 2010 will be cheaper than ever before. One
can easily imagine the societal impacts this could have, and it is
hoped that the government will promptly avert this.

@Z: Easter in Dolores Park: Hunky Jesus

<pic images/hunky1.ps (#30) The winner of the "Hunky Jesus Contest"
2008>

<em>Angelika</em> 
In America, aside from December 25th for Christmas, there are no
religious public holidays where employees have the day off. Good
Friday and Easter Monday are just regular workdays. However, many
Americans do celebrate Easter. Children hunt for Easter eggs, and the
churches are full. San Francisco celebrates a very special event
every year at Easter, which falls into the "Only In San Francisco"
category. The "Sisters of Perpetual Indulgence" celebrate Easter
Sunday in Dolores Park, just around the corner from us, in a very
unique way.

<pic images/dolores.ps The popular Dolores Park around the corner
from us.>

The sisters are homosexual men dressed as colorful nuns and represent
a non-profit organization whose members tirelessly collect donations
for charitable projects. They raise money for AIDS projects or
support groups that advocate for more tolerance. Funds are directed
to institutions that care for homosexual seniors, local hospices, or
homeless shelters for families, as well as to breast cancer aid, with
a particular focus on smaller organizations that might otherwise be
overlooked. Sexual education and ending discrimination against people
with different sexual orientations are also important to the group.

<pic images/hunky2.ps The "Sisters of Perpetual Indulgence" with the
participants at the "Hunky Jesus Contest".>

The sisters founded their somewhat unusual order in 1979 in San
Francisco. It originally consisted exclusively of gay men. Nowadays,
the group is more diverse, and women are also among the members.
There are also branches in many American cities and other countries.
In Germany, you can find the "Sisters of Perpetual Indulgence" in
Cologne, Berlin, and Hamburg. However, San Francisco is still
considered the motherhouse.

Of course, it has not escaped your notice that the clothing and
chosen names are intended as a humorous parody of the rituals and
customs of the Catholic Church. Naturally, some church leaders and
strict Catholics do not appreciate this. It has been suggested that
the special Easter celebration of the sisters should no longer be
held on Holy Easter Sunday but on another day, though this has not
been successful so far. I can only say, stay relaxed, because the San
Francisco sisters have raised over 1 million dollars through their
voluntary efforts since their inception and have distributed it
charitably.

<pic images/dolores2.ps The translation of "Verrücktes Volk im
Dolores Park" to English is "Crazy people in Dolores Park.>

But back to the Easter fun at Dolores Park. The "Sisters of Perpetual
Indulgence" are known not only for raising a lot of money but also
for putting on an entertaining show. Easter at Dolores Park starts
innocently enough in the morning with an Easter egg hunt for
children. Later, you might want to send them home, as the crazy hat
competition ("Bonnet Contest") follows, along with the particularly
popular "Hunky Jesus" contest, where the craziest/most beautiful
Jesus is chosen. An endless line of men in original or less original
outfits (some barely dressed) attempt to portray Jesus. The winner,
whom you can see in illustration (#30), impressed this year not with
any frills but solely with his natural demeanor and convincing
gestures. If you happen to be in San Francisco for Easter, don't miss
this San Francisco institution!

Greetings from by far the craziest city in the world:

The translation of "Angelika & Michael" to English is "Angelika &
Michael," as these are proper names and typically do not change when
translated between languages.

