San Francisco, 07-12-2008

@Z: California is still burning!

<pic images/wildfire.ps The hilly forests in Northern California are particularly affected.>

TODO

<em>Angelika</em> 
Fires are as much a part of everyday life in California as
earthquakes. Every year, there are fires somewhere in late summer,
often in Southern California, where it is hotter and drier. However,
this year the wildfires are reaching alarming proportions. Over 1,700
fires, many of them in Northern California, have been burning since
June 20, and more than 300 of them are still not extinguished.

Most of them were not caused by careless people, but by so-called dry
lightning strikes, meaning thunderstorms without rain, which is
relatively unusual in our area since there are usually no
thunderstorms here. The flames are not directly at our doorstep, but
they are relatively close to San Francisco, so at times it smells in
San Francisco as if everyone had just lit their fireplace and grill.

<pic images/firefighter.ps The firefighter is extinguishing with full
hoses.>

The sun was barely visible through the haze during the day, and we
were even advised to stay indoors. The coastal section of Big Sur,
which is considered one of the most beautiful parts of the southern
stretch of Highway 1 and is located about 230 kilometers south of San
Francisco, has been particularly hard hit, as firefighters have so
far managed to contain only 20 percent of the fire. They suspect it
will take until the end of July to get the fire completely under
control. Those familiar with the area might wonder how it can burn
there, as Big Sur is famous for its fog and is located right by the
ocean. Therefore, the humidity is not exactly low, and the forests
are full of "Redwood" trees, which are quite resistant to fire and
thus become very old. However, the dry grass and brush still burn
like tinder, as California has not received enough rain in the last
two winters.

<pic images/scwildfire.ps The forest is burning near Santa Cruz.>

Now Highway 1 around Big Sur is closed. Normally, at this time of
year, this dream route is lined with one RV after another. The
closure is not only a disappointment for tourists but also affects
businesses and hotels that rely on the summer months to get through
the quiet winter. There is also concern for many buildings of
historical value, as Big Sur has always attracted artists like Henry
Miller, in whose honor there is, for example, a library in Big Sur.

<pic images/firetruck.ps Raging female firefighter in San Francisco>

In May, there was already a fire in the mountains near Santa Cruz,
which is only about an hour's drive south of San Francisco. As luck
would have it, we were invited to a friend's place for the obligatory
American barbecue about 20 km from the fire zone. Since nothing
really shocks us that easily, we went anyway and were able to watch
the smoke and the repeatedly flaring flames all evening. If the
forest fires continue like this, we might all soon have to help with
extinguishing them, as the firefighters are slowly reaching their
limits.

<pic images/beachboy.ps Retiree on the beach in Hawaii.>

<em>Michael</em> 
In early June, we once again took a retiree vacation to Hawaii. To
European ears, this might sound absurd, but if we want to hang out on
the beach for a week relatively inexpensively and without much
hassle, we quickly head to Hawaii. The flight from San Francisco
takes about five hours, which is easy to endure. You don't need a
passport, just a California driver's license, and you can shop in
familiar supermarkets and pay with the same currency in the island
paradise as you do at home.

<pic images/kbeach.ps Jogger on the beach of Kailua.>

Especially the main island of Oahu is very American and partly very
ugly, but to Angelika's dismay, I don't really mind that. Of course,
we don't hang around in Waikiki, which is more like a party scene
similar to Ballermann in Mallorca. Instead, as we have often done, we
rented a vacation apartment from private individuals this year, just
two minutes away from a relatively little-visited beach, and we hung
out at the beach with regular local Hawaiian-Americans and a handful
of tourists.

<pic images/oahujapan.ps Japanese tourists are rushing out of a tour
bus.>

In the tourist hotspots, it mainly attracts Japanese people because
Hawaii is their Mallorca. By the way, Japanese people are, as I
recently told someone...
<LINK>http://www.time.com/time/world/article/0,8599,1820358,00.html|T
he translation of "Bericht über die Touristenbeliebtheit" to English
is "Report on Tourist Popularity.</LINK>
In the magazine "Time," I was able to gather that, according to
surveys, the French are the most hated tourists worldwide, but that's
just by the way. We usually prefer to venture off the beaten path.
The capital, Honolulu, even has some authentic spots, such as a small
Asian quarter, but if you're familiar with San Francisco, you might
just smirk arrogantly at that.

<pic images/oahukim.ps A passport office in Honolulu specialized for
Chinese people.>

One day, we actually got ourselves together, drove a bit into the
city, and took some photos. It is noticeable that the residents walk
much slower than elsewhere in the USA. You just have to stand on a
busy street and calmly observe the pedestrian traffic; it's almost
like slow motion.

<pic images/oahuhobo.ps The translation of "Sogar Penner gibt's in
Honolulu" to English is "There are even bums in Honolulu.>

Interestingly, there is already a striking difference between the
East and West Coasts of America; a New Yorker walks and talks much
faster than someone who lives in California. But compared to Hawaii,
even Californians move like startled rabbits.

@Z: Pearl Harbor" is already in English. It refers to a harbor on the
island of Oahu, Hawaii, which is known for the surprise military
attack by the Japanese Navy Air Service on December 7, 1941, leading
to the United States' entry into World War II.

<pic images/phmem.ps Tourists are marching into the Pearl Harbor
Memorial.>

<em>Michael</em> 
And this time we even took in the cultural program about "Pearl
Harbor." If you paid attention in history class, you know that a
battle took place in this harbor near Honolulu on the Hawaiian island
of Oahu, after which America immediately entered World War II on the
side of the Allies against Germany.

And this is how it happened: While Hitler's Germany rampaged across
Europe in 1941, attacking one country after another, America shifted
restlessly from one buttock to the other and was unable to intervene.
Meanwhile, the Empire of Japan was rampaging in northern China, which
the USA also did not like, and they quickly turned off Japan's oil
supply through a trade embargo.

<pic images/phcard.ps The ticket for Pearl Harbor>

At that time, in 1941, Hawaii was not yet a state of the USA; that
happened much later, in 1959. However, as early as around 1900, the
USA had annexed the Hawaiian Islands after decades of back-and-forth
and had parked all nine battleships of their Pacific Fleet in the
harbor of Honolulu. By the way, the name "Pearl Harbor" of the harbor
comes from the Hawaiians; "Pu'uloa" literally means "harbor of
pearls" and refers to the pearl-producing oysters that were present
there until the late 19th century.

<pic images/phsign.ps Strict rules at the Pearl Harbor Memorial>

From Japan to Hawaii is just a stone's throw of 5,000 kilometers, so
the Japanese sent a fleet with aircraft carriers towards Hawaii,
which actually cruised unnoticed through the South Seas for two
weeks. 200 kilometers off Hawaii, the Japanese reached their target
and launched 180 Japanese planes equipped with all sorts of
explosives towards Pearl Harbor, catching the Americans off guard and
bombing the entire American Pacific fleet to pieces.

A battleship, the "USS Arizona," sank with 1,100 men on board. The
hull of the ship still lies in the shallow waters of Pearl Harbor,
and a rusty steel tower juts out of the water. Instead of recovering
the bodies of the soldiers, they were left there, and a memorial was
built across the ship. Today, if you take the free "Pearl Harbor
Tour" as a tourist, you can see how oil still leaks from the inside
of the ship and floats around in the harbor!

<pic images/phoil.ps Oil is still leaking from the shipwreck of the
USS Arizona.>

<pic images/phshoe.ps Extremely well-polished shoes of the Navy
sailor who steered the ship to the Pearl Harbor Memorial.>

The whole thing is, of course, set up in a rather grandiose manner,
and I even shook the hand of a roughly hundred-year-old war veteran
who was present and giving autographs. He probably didn't know that I
was German, haha! The museum and the memorial aren't very
informative, but if you're already there, you might as well take a
look.

<pic images/phvet.ps A veteran poses with a tourist.>

And the rest of the story is probably familiar to you: After the
surprise attack on Pearl Harbor, the USA entered World War II,
dropped two atomic bombs on Japan, and, with the help of the
remaining Allies, thoroughly halted Germany as well. Living history!

@Z: Same-sex marriage in California

<pic images/gm1.ps A newly married couple in the Castro District in
San Francisco.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
The translation of the provided text to English is:

"Good things come to those who wait. Since June 16, same-sex couples
in California can legally say 'I do.' This makes California the
second state, alongside Massachusetts, to allow this. You might
remember how it all started. In February 2004, our Mayor Gavin Newsom
gave the green light, and thousands of same-sex couples got married
in an ad-hoc ceremony at San Francisco City Hall.
<RBLINK>20040301#1</RBLINK>
It seems like there might be a mistake or missing text in your
request. Could you please provide more context or clarify what you
would like translated?

Shortly thereafter, however, a high court ruling annulled these
marriages again on the grounds that they violated existing California
law, and the legal dispute began. The process dragged on for over
four years. Then came the surprise: The California Supreme Court
decided by a narrow majority (4 to 3) that the right to marry in
California applies equally to heterosexual and homosexual couples and
that the California Constitution prohibits any discrimination based
on sexual orientation. A historic ruling; the judges thereby
overturned Proposition 22 from the year 2000, which defined marriage
in California as existing between a man and a woman.

Interestingly, in California, it actually no longer makes a
difference whether a same-sex couple is married or has a registered
partnership. Since January 2005, registered partnerships have been
essentially equivalent to marriages between a man and a woman, with
all the associated rights and obligations. Since 2007, couples who
have opted for a registered partnership can even file a joint
California tax return.

However, it is important to note that the rights only apply to the
state of California and are not transferable to other states or to
the general federal laws of the United States. For example, the
federal income tax return is still filed separately. In America,
people typically file two income tax returns: one for the state in
which they reside ("State Income Tax") and one at the federal level
("Federal Income Tax").

<pic images/gm2.ps Even the public transportation companies in San
Francisco show solidarity with same-sex couples.>

Immigration laws are also federal laws and do not apply to registered
partnerships. This situation does not change with the legalization of
same-sex marriage in California. Despite getting married, there is
still no green card for the foreign partner or pension claims from
the American Social Security system.

Now you're probably wondering what the whole thing is about. It's
more about the pursuit of a general civil right. There is also hope
that more and more individual states will recognize same-sex
marriage. For example, if Michael and I were to move to the state of
Nevada, the authorities there would recognize our marriage just like
in California. The governor of New York has already announced that he
will recognize Californian same-sex marriages just like traditional
ones.

The state of Massachusetts already passed a similar law in 2004, but
California additionally allows same-sex couples from other states to
get married in California. This has led to a veritable marriage
tourism. People are now waiting for these couples to sue for
recognition of their Californian marriage in their own states.
However, this is associated with some hurdles, as most states have
already legally established that a marriage is only valid between a
man and a woman.

<pic images/gm5.ps The "Twin Peaks Cafe," a local establishment in
the Castro District, is celebrating the court ruling on same-sex
marriage.>

In California, various conservative groups are also trying to put an
end to same-sex marriage. In November 2008, Californians will vote on
whether to amend their constitution to define marriage as only
between a man and a woman, which would override the ruling of the
state's Supreme Court. However, most legal experts doubt that the
same-sex marriages already performed could be retroactively
dissolved. If Californians vote for the constitutional amendment, it
is predicted that lawsuits would be filed again on the grounds of
equal treatment, with the argument being, why can't we marry if other
couples were allowed to do so?

There is, of course, also the possibility that California will vote
against the constitutional amendment. According to surveys, the mood
barometer has shifted: a narrow majority is in favor of same-sex
marriage. Schwarzenegger is also against a constitutional amendment,
but he justifies this with vague remarks that the constitution is a
sanctuary that should not be tampered with lightly. The man always
puts on a balancing act when it comes to the issue of same-sex
marriage. He cannot afford to expose himself to overly liberal ideas
among his fellow Republican party members.

<pic images/gm4.ps There are now not only bride and groom, but also
bride-bride and groom-groom.>

It is rumored that he is actually in favor of it in private, after
all, the Hollywood star has many homosexual friends. I also found it
hilarious that Arnie was immediately all fired up when smart minds
calculated that the additional weddings in the next three years would
bring the state of California up to 684 million dollars. That's our
"Governator" being very pragmatic. At the moment, San Francisco is
definitely celebrating, and the stores are stocking their shelves
with wedding cards featuring groom and groom and bride and bride.

@Z: The translation of "Wie man sich beschwert" to English is "How to
complain.

<pic images/yellphone.ps Sometimes you have to complain on the
phone.>

<em>Michael</em> 
If you get ripped off or treated rudely, you should complain. But how
do you do that in the USA? If you're stuck on the line with some
idiot from the call center and can't make any progress, you ask to
speak to the boss. "Can I speak to your supervisor, please?" you ask,
and then the idiots usually wake up and try to appease you. Politely
but firmly, you point out that you didn't get the information you
were looking for and now want to speak to the supervisor. Yes,
really. The call center people have to do that.

Where does one learn to complain? Taking courses is a waste of money;
only practice, practice, practice helps. It's best to start with
small things where it doesn't matter if you don't achieve your goal.
If there's a call on the phone bill for a few cents and you're sure
you never made that call, you call the phone company. Personally, I
regularly call sloppy companies that don't process my mailed-in
rebates on time. It costs me nothing (they all have a 1-800 number),
and I improve my negotiation skills as if with an expensive trainer
(of course, I'm already pretty good, but there's always more to
learn). As always, the rule is: firm but friendly. Don't crack jokes;
instead, be humorless and meticulous.

It turns out that you have been led by the nose, it is time to file a
complaint with public authorities. This may sound completely crazy to
you now, but it is actually common to file a complaint with the
"State Attorney General" of the respective state in these cases. The
website of the
<LINK>http://www.naag.org|The translation of "National Association of
Attorneys General" to English is actually the same, as it is already
in English.</LINK>
List the contact addresses.

<pic images/yellphone2.ps Stay calm, just don't freak out.>

Furthermore, there are consumer protection associations at the city,
county, or state level that focus on
<LINK>http://www.consumeraction.gov/state.shtml|the Internet|consumer
protection associations</LINK>
The translation to English is: "are reachable and also take care of
consumer complaints.

Another possibility is the...
<LINK>http://www.bbb.org|The term "Better Business Bureau" is already
in English. It refers to a nonprofit organization focused on
advancing marketplace trust by setting standards for ethical business
behavior and monitoring compliance.</LINK>
a consumer protection organization with quite a lot of influence.
Many companies are members and commit to working with the
organization, which acts as a mediator in disputes with customers, to
reach a solution. But even companies that are not members fear the
Better Business Bureau, because no one wants to be on the
organization's blacklist. And also on
<LINK>http://ripoffreport.com|ripoffreport.com</LINK>
The translation to English is: "One can vent their frustration and
warn others about fraudulent companies.

If nothing else helps and a lot of money is at stake, the only option
is to hire a lawyer and initiate legal proceedings. However, this is
very expensive in the USA, and that's why for 'small claims' between
$1,500 and $25,000, there is the so-called...
<LINK>http://http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Small_claims_court|Small
Claims Court</LINK>
The translation of the provided German text to English is: ", which,
depending on the state, processes these cases in an expedited manner.
For larger cases, you can visit the website of the
<LINK>http://abanet.org|The translation of "American Bar Association"
to English is "American Bar Association." It is already in
English.</LINK>
The translation to English is: "to find a professional lawyer (named
after the bar exam, not an establishment for alcohol consumption).

@Z: Cheap gasoline when buying a car

<pic images/guzzler.ps The rascal from Jeep promises cheap gasoline.>

<em>Michael</em> 
As you know, gas prices have skyrocketed in the USA. Those who drive
fuel-efficient Japanese hybrid cars are quietly pleased. On the other
hand, drivers of gas-guzzling American cars are left empty-handed.

Anyone driving a gas-guzzler from brands like Chevrolet, Pontiac,
Ford, or Buick today will go crazy at the pump when the meter
approaches the $80 mark. Two years ago, gasoline cost $2.50 per
gallon, but now it's $4.50. Of course, we're still far from the usual
(converted) $9.57 per gallon in Europe.

Consequently, the sales figures for these brands plummeted sharply,
because when it hits their wallets, even Americans suddenly become
environmental angels. However, the marketing folks of the
"Doofmobiles" from American production aren't clueless either: To
ensure that customers continue to guzzle gasoline, the car marketers,
as seen recently in a commercial, are now offering gasoline at a
guaranteed low price of $2.99 per gallon with the purchase of a new
car! And this offer lasts for three years, up to a specified maximum
amount per year.

Another commercial praises the now even larger fuel tank of a
vehicle, so that at least you don't have to go to the gas station as
often, especially when it already hurts so much. No kidding, the
slogan of the ad was actually "Less pumping, more driving." It's
mind-boggling. On the other hand, many Americans are now only filling
up half a tank instead of a full one. It saves a lot!

<pic images/guzzler2.ps And even a discount on the car!>

Funnily enough, in the USA you now also have to pay a penalty tax if
you buy a car that consumes an excessive amount of gasoline. This
so-called "Gas Guzzler Tax" is listed directly on the price tag of
the cars at the dealership.

Chrysler and Jeep will cover the cost of gasoline for three years
when purchasing a new car.

@Z: Benzinsparen

<pic images/suburb1.ps The suburbanite in the first house has
probably already regretted the purchase of the two lobsters.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
In addition to the gimmicks described by Michael, car dealers are
flooding us with tips on saving gasoline. These include everything
from driving less, removing unnecessary weight from the trunk,
staying slightly below the speed limit of 65 miles per hour on the
highway, maintaining the correct tire pressure, to downright
absurdities like turning off the engine when driving downhill. The
latter, however, prompted an immediate outcry from the AAA (the
American equivalent of the ADAC) because it is dangerous. It is
slowly becoming clear here that gasoline prices will remain high in
the long term or may even rise further. I am sure that $10 per gallon
is on the horizon in the near future (in Germany, if you convert
gallons to liters and dollars to euros, you already have $9.57 per
gallon of premium gasoline).

And behold, the behavior of this car-loving nation is already
changing. The number of passengers using public transportation
systems like BART (the subway in San Francisco and surrounding
areas), ferries, and CalTrains (commuter trains operating between San
Francisco and San Jose) is increasing, and bicycle sellers are
pleased with higher sales figures. Employers are complaining that
potential candidates are turning down jobs that are too far from
their homes and require long commutes by car.

Experts, such as one of my favorite columnists, Paul Krugman from the
New York Times, already foresee the end of the American concept of
"Suburbia," which refers to the settlement in ever-expanding suburbs.
The urban sprawl in America has led to a situation where almost all
daily activities, such as shopping, prioritize the use of cars. With
skyrocketing gas prices, this puts a strain on people's wallets.

<pic images/suburb2.ps Typical suburban neighborhood in South San
Francisco.>

However, the infrastructure cannot be changed overnight, as for years
no one invested in the public transportation system, and local small
businesses gave way to huge shopping centers that everyone has to
drive to. I really can't appreciate this uniformity of suburbs, which
lack any originality and look the same from the East Coast to the
West Coast, so I would be very glad if the trend were to reverse.

Quiet signs of this may also be evident in the problems faced by the
coffeehouse chain "Starbucks." I already mentioned in the last
newsletter that "Starbucks" is feeling the effects of the unstable
American housing market and the credit crisis.
<RBLINK>20080502#2</RBLINK>
), but many American customers now seem to be put off by the size of
the empire and the always identical-looking stores. They prefer to
frequent smaller coffee houses that have their own flair and
ambiance.

The German word "Ein" translates to "A" or "An" in English, depending
on the context.
<LINK>http://www.pbs.org/newshour/bb/business/july-dec08/starbuckswoe
s_07-02.html|The translation of "Bericht �ber Starbucks im
Fernsehen" to English is "Report about Starbucks on
television.</LINK>
It was recently shown that Starbucks customers now miss the typical
coffee smell, as beans are no longer ground on a large scale in the
store. The spectacle of preparing the various coffee drinks was also
lost after the introduction of new espresso machines, which customers
could no longer see over. The head of Starbucks promised to correct
both issues, in addition to closing 600 stores, in order to avert the
crisis.

@Z: Hands-free starting from July first

<pic images/cellphone.ps Starting July 1st, it is prohibited to make
phone calls while driving.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Driving in San Francisco and the surrounding area can often drive you
to despair. It's not just the heavy traffic that's to blame, but also
the many drivers who seemingly won their driver's license in a
lottery or drive as if they don't have one at all. Which, by the way,
is not so uncommon in California.

Short-term double parking is a part of everyday life, and I
especially love it when the driver cheekily sits in the car in front
of an exit but doesn't pull into the exit. No, they prefer to block
an entire lane. As if they were the only person in the world. Most
people also use their turn signals only when they feel like it, a
Californian habit that Michael has also adopted.

The most annoying thing, however, is the constant chatting on the
phone while driving. According to my own observations, this applied
to every third driver until recently. Even before the first visual
contact with the phone at the ear, the chatterers stand out: the
unorthodox driving style, abrupt braking, long unnecessary stops at
stop signs, running red lights, and overlooking pedestrians at
crosswalks give them away.

I can sing a song about near-accidents due to the cell phone plague.
And although it has long been known that using a cell phone while
driving leads to many traffic fatalities, California has only been
one of the five American states since July 1, 2008, where drivers are
only allowed to make calls while driving using a built-in hands-free
system or an earpiece (hence the slogan "Hands free").

California drivers under the age of 18 (licenses are available from
age 16) are no longer even allowed to do that. Interestingly,
however, the lawmakers forgot to explicitly include sending SMS
messages in the law, as this practice was not as popular at the time
the law was drafted. One would think that common sense would prohibit
typing away on a tiny keyboard while sitting behind the wheel, but
nothing really surprises me anymore. After all, I don't read a book
while driving either.

It costs 20 dollars the first time a driver is caught with a phone to
their ear, and 50 dollars the second time. I think that's too low,
but supposedly the 20 dollars actually amount to 76 dollars because
of the fees that are added on top, and the 50 dollars shoot up to 190
dollars because of this. However, there are no points added to the
California driver's record for this offense. By the way, some
comedians have made fun of the hands-free motto and demonstrated,
<LINK>http://www.ireport.com/docs/DOC-42985#|The translation of the
German phrase "was die Autofahrer jetzt alles anstellen können" to
English is "what drivers can do now.</LINK>
...because they no longer have to hold the phone to their ear: they
can tinker on the laptop, eat, write cards. But it is really funny
what Californian drivers do in their cars. Recently, Michael and I
saw someone brushing their teeth with an electric toothbrush while
behind the wheel. The question that plagued me was where he intended
to rinse his mouth.

And one more addendum to the last newsletter: We had asked if you
knew the answer to a question from Michael's traffic ticket exam,
specifically how many traffic fatalities in 2005 in the USA were due
to drunk driving. The options were (a) 16,000, (b) 25,000, (c) 5,000,
or (d) 10,000. The correct answer was 16,000.

And what should you pay attention to if your car breaks down and you
have to park it on the side of the road? Possible answers were (a)
Watch out for tall grass, (b) open the trunk, (c) park the car facing
oncoming traffic, or (d) turn on the high beams. The correct answer
was (a). Because if the grass is tall and dry and the engine is quite
hot, it can cause a grass fire. No kidding, that was the correct
answer!

@Z: Homestory about Michael

<pic images/homestory.ps The Linux magazine publishes a home story
about Michael.>

<em>Michael</em> 
And one more note on my own behalf: For the tenth anniversary of the
magazine column that I write every month for the German Linux
Magazine, the magazine has a kind of...
<LINK>http://www.linux-magazin.de/heft_abo/ausgaben/2007/10/ich_denke
_in_perl|Home-Story</LINK>
Published, which is now finally available online. With some photos,
our exciting life in San Francisco is documented and my heroic deeds
are praised. I think it turned out quite well, quite entertaining,
and even relatively accurate. My next goal is the cover of "Capital"
when I finally achieve the big breakthrough with a startup company.
I'm working on it, but I can't perform miracles!

@Z: San Francisco Views: Kirby Cove

<pic images/kirby.ps The secret beach "Kirby Cove" north of the
Golden Gate Bridge.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Summer is here, the dollar is incredibly low, and the tourism office
in San Francisco is rubbing its hands with glee because San Francisco
is still highly popular among American and European tourists. And
since we don't want you to wander along the well-trodden tourist
paths, today I'm going to share a little insider tip with you once
again.

The Golden Gate Bridge is, of course, an absolute must on every San
Francisco tourist's checklist, and the locals agree. Everyone wants
to see the bridge and is on the lookout for the best photo
opportunity. However, no one who lives in San Francisco goes to the
official viewpoint, which is located just right behind the bridge
heading out of the city, because there you not only have to contend
with tour buses but also fight for a parking spot during the high
season on weekends.

Only at the next exit "Alexander Avenue" does the local driver go
down and then follow the signs to "Marin Headlands." You reach
Conzelman Road, which leads up the mountain and repeatedly offers
fantastic views of the bridge and city. Provided, of course, that the
latter is not shrouded in fog. However, it seems that this is already
mentioned in every travel guide, and on weekends, you're not exactly
alone here. The Marin Headlands area is also very popular among us
city dwellers for hiking and cycling. But right behind the crowded
viewpoint "Battery Spencer," a bit hidden and off the main road, lies
the beach "Kirby Cove." You can only reach it by walking down a
1.6-kilometer-long and relatively steep, unpaved road lined with
eucalyptus trees. This naturally leads to a certain dropout rate and
thus prevents the masses from flocking there. The path ends at a
crescent-shaped beach that offers the Golden Gate Bridge and the city
of San Francisco as a backdrop. If you're feeling adventurous, you
can also camp here, but only with a prior reservation. Michael and I
still plan to do that someday. Then we'll report live from the
campsite on the edge of the city.

Best regards!

The translation of "Angelika & Michael" to English is "Angelika &
Michael," as these are proper names and typically do not change when
translated between languages.

