San Francisco, 12-21-2008

@Z: Christmas 2008

<pic images/weih.ps Christmas 2008>

<em>Angelika</em> 
The year is coming to an end, and newspapers and television are
delighting us with year-in-review segments. The American election
campaign and the financial crisis shaped the year 2008 like no other
topic. And because the election of Barack Obama represents such a
historic event, my Christmas newsletter is dedicated to the new man
in the White House:

Dear Barack Obama,

We warmly congratulate you on winning the election. We never thought
that this country, which is conservative in so many ways, would
catapult you into the White House. We were merely spectators, as we
cannot vote with a Green Card, but we were rooting for you. To be
honest, we're not entirely sure what makes the office of the American
President so desirable. The pay is miserable for such a tough job,
and you'll find that you can't really please everyone. For some,
you're too left-wing, for others, too moderate and pragmatic.
Additionally, you have to clean up the mess left behind by Bush and
his associates. But you will go down in history as the first black
American President.

Nearly unsolvable tasks are coming your way. The financial crisis is
certainly at the top of your list. By the way, we Europeans have
chuckled a bit at the government bailout intended to save the banks.
When things get critical, the idea of capitalism seems to suddenly
stand on shaky ground even in America. You should seize the
opportunity and push forward with universal healthcare, because you
can silence critics who equate a national health insurance with
socialism by arguing that the state can indeed be quite useful at
times.

However, we do not agree that the automotive industry in Detroit
should receive government bailout packages after years of negligence,
ignorance, and a lack of innovation and investment in fuel-efficient
cars. Yes, yes, we are aware that this is about jobs, suppliers, and
the struggling economy.

Regarding gasoline, it is really time to heavily tax gasoline,
because only then will people buy more economical and smaller cars,
drive less, and use public transportation. That would truly be a bold
move. The tax revenues could immediately flow into the expansion of
the public transportation system and promote alternative energy
sources.

Then, of course, you still have two wars started by your predecessor
on your hands. We trust that you won't behave like a bull in a china
shop and will involve the international community more effectively in
future crises. And close Guantanamo Bay.

By the way, you might be hoping that the Europeans will give you more
support in Iraq and Afghanistan. While the masses may have flocked to
you during your campaign in Europe, that doesn't necessarily mean
that the European community will shell out money or that European
countries will strengthen their troops. Just don't harbor any
illusions.

Finally, we have a question regarding Hillary Clinton: Was that a
prearranged game on your part? She supports you for the rest of the
campaign and, in return, is given the position of Secretary of State?
If that doesn't backfire, because the Clinton machine hasn't exactly
been gentle with you.

In any case, we wish you a peaceful Christmas before you officially
take up your position in January.

Greetings from San Francisco!

Two immigrants

In this spirit, we wish you all a reflective end of the year and a
Merry Christmas!

Angelika und Michael
