San Francisco, 09-03-2009

@Z: The United States Supreme Court

<pic images/gavel.ps The Supreme Court issues landmark rulings on constitutional questions.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
While President Obama was battling with healthcare reform and its
critics in recent weeks, something else groundbreaking happened. In
early August, the Senate confirmed the appointment of a new Supreme
Court Justice to the U.S. Supreme Court, the highest court in the
United States: Sonia Sotomayor is not only the third woman to hold
this position, but also the first person of Latin American descent in
the 220-year history of the court.

She fills the position of Justice David Souter, who retired at the
age of 69. Appointments to the court carry significant weight during
a president's term because they are lifetime appointments. If you
look at the list of currently active Supreme Court justices and which
presidents appointed them, you'll know what I mean: Samuel Alito
(appointed in 2006 by George W. Bush), Stephen Breyer (appointed in
1994 by Clinton), Ruth Bader Ginsburg (appointed in 1993 by Clinton),
Anthony Kennedy (appointed in 1988 by Reagan), John Roberts
(appointed in 2005 by George W. Bush), Antonin Scalia (appointed in
1986 by Reagan), Sonia Sotomayor (appointed in 2009 by Obama), John
Paul Stevens (appointed in 1975 by Ford), Clarence Thomas (appointed
in 1991 by George H. W. Bush).

<pic images/supreme-court.ps The impressive Supreme Court building in Washington D.C.>

If you've been keeping count, you know that the Supreme Court
consists of a total of nine justices. The 54-year-old John G. Roberts
serves as the Chief Justice. By the way, the Constitution does not
specify how many justices should make up the Supreme Court, but since
1869, there have been nine. An odd number of justices is advisable,
however, to avoid possible deadlock situations.

There are actually only three ways to lose a seat on the Supreme
Court: impeachment, death, and voluntary resignation. However, there
has only been one attempt to remove a justice. This occurred in 1805
when the House of Representatives impeached Justice Samuel Chase, but
the necessary votes for conviction in the Senate were not obtained,
so the justice remained in office--a strong endorsement of the
separation of powers between the legislative branch and politics.

At 55 years old, Sotomayor is among the younger justices of the
Supreme Court and likely has many years ahead of her in which she can
shape the court and, more broadly, American society through her
decisions. Her vote is just one of nine, but especially when the
court is balanced between conservative and liberal justices, this one
vote can potentially tip the scales.

It is the responsibility of the judges to ensure, as a last resort,
that the American Constitution is applied lawfully. It is not about
writing new laws, but about applying existing law. That sounds good,
but the American Constitution is often written so vaguely that it
does indeed matter how the judges interpret the legal text.
Generally, the Supreme Court deals with appellate cases, i.e., cases
that have already been decided in lower courts.

Presidents certainly try to influence the court by selecting
candidates who align with their views. The big questions that arise
repeatedly are: What is the newly appointed judge's stance on
abortion, gun ownership, affirmative action, or civil rights? While
the president may propose their ideal candidate, that person only
gets a seat on the Supreme Court if the Senate confirms them through
a two-step process. First, the Senate Judiciary Committee questions
the Supreme Court candidate and gives a green or red light on whether
the candidate should be voted on by the full Senate. If the committee
agrees, a simple majority in the Senate is sufficient to confirm the
nomination.

During Sotomayor's hearing, the senators primarily focused on the
following comment she made in a 2001 speech in California: "I would
hope that a wise Latina woman, with the richness of her experiences,
would more often than not reach a better conclusion than a white male
who hasn't lived that life." Many Republican senators interpreted
this statement as reverse discrimination.

She also had to answer for her notorious decision regarding the
firefighters of the city of New Haven. The city of New Haven required
its firefighters who wanted to be promoted to take a test, but then
did not consider the results because no black individuals would have
been promoted to a higher position due to low test scores. The city
suddenly got cold feet and feared that someone would sue because no
minorities appeared with higher ranks. Consequently, predominantly
white firefighters who had performed well on the test sued, arguing
that they missed out on promotions due to the disregarded test
results. Sotomayor sided with the city of New Haven, but her current
Supreme Court colleagues later overturned her decision.

<pic images/nine.ps Good book on the topic of the Supreme Court: "The Nine".>

During the hearings, candidates nowadays carefully avoid directly
answering sensitive questions (such as those on the topic of
abortion). They often beat around the bush. The Senate ultimately
confirmed Sotomayor's nomination with a vote of 68 to 31.
Incidentally, it is not guaranteed that the President's preferred
candidate will actually act in accordance with the President's wishes
on the court, because due to the separation of powers, the Supreme
Court is independent of both the President and Congress.

Republican presidents have historically nominated seemingly
conservative judges to the Supreme Court, who then turned out to be
extremely liberal over the course of their careers. Earl Warren,
nominated by Eisenhower, is one such example. Some of the most famous
and influential decisions of the Supreme Court include "Brown v.
Board of Education" (1954) and "Roe v. Wade" (1973). In the former
case, the justices abolished racial segregation in schools; in the
latter, women were granted the fundamental right to have abortions.
Behind Roe was a Texan woman named Norma McCorvey, who challenged her
state's abortion ban. To protect her anonymity, she was given the
name Jane Roe. Henry Wade was the district attorney of Dallas at the
time. We are eager to see what Sotomayor will have a say in.

@Z: Visiting Pittsburgh

<pic images/pitt1.ps The old town of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania>

<em>Michael</em> 
Recently, I had to attend the Perl Conference in Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania for work. Grumbling, I boarded the plane on Sunday
afternoon, which didn't even fly directly to Pittsburgh, but only to
Cleveland, Ohio, 60 miles away. From there, a propeller plane (!) took
me to Pittsburgh. What century do we live in, anyway?

<pic images/pitt2.ps In the city center, all sorts of riffraff are hanging around in the evening hours.>

No matter, after I rented a car at the airport and drove to the
hotel, I discovered in my room that the TSA had opened my suitcase
for inspection purposes, searched it, and then sealed it with a
sticker and a plastic clip. For the Perl conference, I had packed a
small toy rocket launcher, whose software I was presenting in a
lecture, and the man at the airport's X-ray machine probably had found
that a bit suspicious and had pressed the alarm button. Or maybe it was
just a coincidence, but in any case, I was standing in the hotel room
with a sealed suitcase and couldn't open it.
The TSA's plastic clip was about as tough as
a ski lift ticket, so it was impossible to remove by hand. Of course,
I didn't have a pocket knife with me, because that's prohibited on airplanes.
So I went down to the reception, where they handed me a pair of
scissors, with which I finally cut open the suitcase lock. Phew. Next
time, think a little, TSA, okay!

Pittsburgh is a former steel industry metropolis that, of course, no
longer exists in that form. According to a sign at the airport,
Pittsburgh is now home to many multi-billion dollar companies, but
the downtown area is dead after 9 PM. You can see white Americans
quickly darting from their cars into hermetically sealed restaurants,
while on the street, only black youths hang around, incredulously
staring at people like your humble narrator who walk around
fearlessly. It's a strange scene. Yet, the weather in the summer is
really pleasant, not too hot, because the city is located right on
the Ohio River, and you could comfortably sit in a street cafe until
midnight.

<pic images/hofbrau1.ps Visit to the Hofbrauhaus, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania>

South of the Ohio River, there is even a so-called Hofbrauhaus,
which the intrepid newsletter reporter naturally had to try out. They
brew their own beer there, and the wheat beer I tasted was
actually very good. The Jägerschnitzel I ordered turned out to be a
breaded (!) schnitzel with mushrooms, which was served on (!) potato
salad, although I would have rather called it fried potatoes. But I
must say, it tasted excellent.

<pic images/hofbrau2.ps Is there Jägermeister in a vending machine at the real Hofbrauhaus as well?>

For musical entertainment, a one-man band was playin on stage, an older
gentleman in lederhosen and with a bushy beard, who performed proven
hits like "Rosamunde" and "Schützenliesel" on his Yamaha keyboard, including
vocals. Ha!

<pic images/hofbrau3.ps The gentleman in lederhosen rolled the "R" in "Rosamunde" like an American, though.>

The next day, I wanted to buy a beer at the supermarket to take back
to my hotel room, but I was informed that you can't buy beer in
supermarkets in the state of Pennsylvania. Well, well, I was familiar
with that from the Mormon state of Utah or even Alaska, where you
have to buy alcoholic beverages in so-called liquor stores. When I
then stopped at a small convenience store that looked like a liquor
store and also didn't find any beer in the refrigerated section, I
became suspicious and asked the man at the checkout for advice. He
was a foreigner who looked like he might be from the Yemen/Syria
area. He laughed and said it wasn't that simple here ("We are
different here, haha!") and that I would have to go into a bar and
order "beer to go."

<pic images/pitsaloon.ps Absurd alcohol laws in the state of Pennsylvania forced the thirsty newsletter reporter to order his beer to-go from the village saloon.>

Kindly, he also gave me directions to the next bar. I found it, entered,
and asked the server for beer to go, and was directed to a glass
refrigerator placed next to the bar. When I tried to open its door to
get the desired beer, it turned out to be locked. However, the
barmaid immediately instructed the barman to fetch the key and
retrieve my sixpack of beer from the fridge. The beer was packed in an opaque
plastic bag, I paid, went to the car, and drove home. Sometimes you
just have to wonder ...

@Z: Cash for Clunkers

<pic images/clunker.ps The "Cash for Clunkers" program will hopefully help to take this old wreck to the junkyard.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
In Germany, you have known it for a long time: the ominous scrappage
bonus, which is intended to drive potential buyers into car
dealerships to exchange their old cars for newer, more
environmentally friendly models. After much back and forth, America
followed suit with the "Cash for Clunkers" campaign, officially
called the "Car Allowance Rebate System."

Customers who trade in their old car for a more environmentally
friendly new one receive a bonus when purchasing a new vehicle.
However, not every old banger is accepted; a "clunker" can't be
older than 25 years and has to consume at least (!) 13 liters per 100
kilometers. Since Americans do not measure fuel consumption in liters
per 100 kilometers but rather by how many miles (1.6 kilometers) a
car can drive on a gallon (3.79 liters) of gas, the value was specified as
18 "miles per gallon" (mpg), and a clunker had to run <em>less</em>
than 18 miles on a gallon.

For the new car, there was a bonus of $3,500 if it achieved at least
4 miles more, meaning 22 miles per gallon. This corresponds to a
consumption of 10.7 liters per 100 km. The state even offered a
$4,500 bonus for an increase of 10 miles, meaning new cars with a
consumption of less than 8.4 liters per 100 km.

<pic images/formula.ps The formula to convert "miles per gallon" to "liters per 100 kilometers.>

If you're wondering how to convert "Miles Per Gallon" to "Liters per
100km" and vice versa, here's the formula: You divide the number 235
by the given value. For example, if a car achieves 20 miles per
gallon, that's 235 divided by 20, which equals 11.75 liters per
100km. Conversely, if a German car consumes 7 liters per 100km,
that's 235 divided by 7, which equals 33 miles per gallon.

Politicians, however, did not anticipate the success of the
program. People practically stormed the car dealerships, and within
just a few weeks, the allocated billion dollars was exhausted.

In early August, Congress approved another two billion, but that
didn't last long either, and last Monday, on August 24th, the "Cash
for Clunkers" program officially ended. It's amazing how a little
financial incentive can suddenly turn gas guzzlers into little
environmental angels!

@Z: Arnie And The State Parks

<pic images/spentrance.ps Entrance to the State Park in Half Moon Bay>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Every tourist is familiar with the spectacular American national
parks that are spread across the entire USA. My goal is to visit each
of these national parks at least once. And although Michael and I
have already visited quite a few, there are still several we haven't
seen. In addition to the national parks, we also enjoy spending time
in the so-called state parks, which can be found in every American
state. The idea behind the state park system is also to make scenic
or historically significant areas or buildings accessible to the
public and to preserve them for future generations. California alone
boasts 278 state parks with different focuses, including 300 miles of
coastline. On average, almost 80 million people visit the various
California state parks each year. So, it is quite a popular leisure
activity. State parks are smaller compared to national parks: a
beach, a forest, a lake, a lighthouse, a mission church.

<pic images/ranger.ps Park rangers are collecting signatures against the planned closures.>

As the name suggests, State Parks are managed and funded by the
respective state. In California, however, the coffers have been empty
for several years, and the recently passed budget once again includes
cuts in the millions to plug the ever-growing holes. Unfortunately,
our governor Arnold Schwarzenegger showed no mercy even with the
State Parks, despite usually portraying himself as an environmental
angel. When signing the budget, he cut an additional 6.2 million from
the State Park fund, putting the parks, which are already not exactly
flush with cash, in a precarious situation. It is feared that 50-100
State Parks in California may have to close unless private sponsors
or nonprofit organizations and groups can be found to keep some
parks, currently on the blacklist, alive. This would be the first
time in California's history that State Park closures occur.

<pic images/spsign.ps Signs in the State Park of Half Moon Bay.>

Visiting a state park usually costs a small fee per car. The entrance
fee currently ranges from 2 to 14 dollars, with us usually paying 5
or 6 dollars. Prices were increased in mid-August, which is just a
drop in the bucket and cannot stop the threatened closures. Strangely
enough, in our early years, almost 13 years ago, we paid
an average of 10 dollars for entry to California state parks, until some smart
people reduced the fees across the board by 50% in the year 2000--a
decision that was not exactly forward-thinking.

@Z: Once again Kailua

<pic images/row3.ps Rowers on the beach of Kauai/Oahu>

<em>Michael</em> 
We have also become quite old and sluggish by now and have recently
started going to the same place in Hawaii every year. In the little
town of Kailua on the east side of the main island of Oahu, there is
a huge crescent-shaped beach with only gentle waves. We always stay,
as we did this year at the end of May, in a small vacation apartment
from which you can walk barefoot along a 100-meter private pathway to
the beach.

<pic images/kailua.ps Two retirees in the vacation apartment in Hawaii>

When the Hawaiian neighbors are not tinkering with their houses or
having their lawns mowed, both of which cause an infernal noise, you
can relax quite well there. A gentle breeze blows through the
windows, which are open all day and only protected by fly screens, so
there is no need for air conditioning, despite the tropical heat!

<pic images/surf2.ps (#1) Boogie board surfer at Sandy Beach.>

The 5-hour flight from San Francisco went by incredibly quickly,
after all, I had my new netbook.
<LINK>http://www.linux-magazin.de/Heft-Abo/Ausgaben/2009/07/Datenmaler|"Minime"</LINK>
and lots of TV movies stored on it! This time on Oahu, we didn't
drive around much, but we did go to "Sandy Beach." After all,
American media reported that our President Obama had also been
bodysurfing in the waves there! However, we didn't go into the
water because the oldest surfers there were around 25, and the waves
crashed in so brutally that you can't even imagine!

<pic images/don.ps (#2) The discount supermarket "Don Quijote>

And as quasi-Hawaiians, as we consider ourselves after more than 10
vacations on the islands, we naturally shop where the "locals," the
natives, shop: at the supermarket "Don Quijote," pronounced "Don
Quicksott" in American, not like in German or Spanish. The Japanese
characters in illustration (#2), I can tell you as an old
connoisseur of everything Japanese, phonetically spell "Don Quijote" in Japanese as
"Do-N-Ki-soh-te" in Katakana characters, which the Japanese use for foreign
words that don't have a Japanese Kanji character. The store is not
only incredibly cheap (sometimes only half as expensive as the
"Safeway" across the street), but also offers all sorts of
Japanese/Korean delicacies: fresh tuna poke and kimchi oysters, for
example, super delicious!

@Z: California and Same-Sex Marriage

<pic images/gaycouple2.ps The gay marriage issue in California is an endless story.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
California has not only hit some economic turbulence but has also
suffered a loss of image as a pioneering state, at least when it
comes to same-sex marriages. In the meantime, six American
states--Massachusetts, Connecticut, Vermont, New Hampshire, Maine,
and Iowa--now allow same-sex couples to marry, while the California
Supreme Court judges decided on May 26 of this year that Proposition
8 is legally valid.

You may remember: It all began with our Mayor Gavin Newsom, who
practiced civil disobedience by allowing same-sex couples to marry in
San Francisco in February 2004. This was halted a month later by a
court order, including the annulment of the marriages conducted in
San Francisco. The dispute between proponents and opponents of
same-sex marriage then shifted to the California courts for a mere
four years, until finally, in May 2008, the Supreme Court, by a 4 to
3 vote, allowed marriage between same-sex partners, as the narrow
majority of judges deemed the previous practice discriminatory and in
violation of the California Constitution.

Between June 16 and November 4, 18,000 same-sex couples exchanged
vows in California. Opponents of same-sex marriage then promptly
organized a ballot initiative, namely Proposition 8, which redefined
marriage in California exclusively as a union between a man and a
woman. On November 4, 52% of California voters voted in favor of
Proposition 8, thus against same-sex marriage, prompting supporters
of same-sex marriage to attempt to declare Proposition 8 itself
legally invalid (<RBLINK>20081120#7</RBLINK>).
The highest court then ruled in May of this year: No, the popular
initiative, Proposition 8, is legally valid, but the 18,000 marriages
that have already been conducted remain valid. Now, signatures are
being collected once again to possibly vote on Proposition 8 in the
near future, in the hope of overturning it by voter decision rather
than by court ruling. An endless story...

@Z: Learning English With The Pros

<pic images/jazz.ps The pose "Jazz Hands">

<em>Michael</em> 
And here is our series "English Words That No One Knows." Today:
"Jazz Hands." You will probably rub your eyes in disbelief, but even
after 12 years of living in the USA, it happens that I come across an
English word I've never heard before, which every American child
knows. Recently, I was chatting via instant messenger with a
colleague who was working from home and was reporting live that a
crazy homeless person was wandering around in front of his apartment
in sunny San Diego, singing, clapping, and doing "Jazz Hands."
Puzzled, I asked what on earth "Jazz Hands" were. My colleague,
equally astonished, explained to me that it is a pose where a
Broadway actor in a musical shows ten splayed fingers to the
audience. Who would have thought there was a word for that!
Undoubtedly another shortcoming in the catastrophic English lessons
of my English teacher Haueisen at Gymnasium Neusäß, which was not
exactly short on catastrophic shortcomings.

@Z: Grass Valley

<pic images/grass-valley.ps Grass Valley, in the "Gold Country" of California>

<em>Michael</em> 
On the fourth of July, the American national holiday, it's well-known
that Americans flock to public parks in droves, to fire up the barbeque. This year,
July 4th also happened to fall on a Saturday, so Friday was declared
a holiday as well. On these days, the leisurely traveler must avoid
public parks and campgrounds like the plague, so we settled into a
cozy cottage in "Gold Country." This is the area in California where
the Gold Rush took place in 1849, but nowadays it serves more touristy
purposes with lovingly renovated Wild West buildings.

As we rolled in with our rocket (the Integra), a weekly market was taking place and
local youth were gathering for a rendezvous. Some vintage car
enthusiasts were also present, showcasing their meticulously polished
collector's items. The pumpkin-shaped white peaches ("white Peach")
tasted excellent.

<pic images/nevada-city.ps Wild West facades in the neighboring town of Nevada City>

<pic images/grass-valley-oldtimer.ps A car enthusiast has brought his vintage car.>

In the area, you can hike around the Yuba River; however, the sun was
blazing down intensely, and after just one and a half miles, we
descended to the Yuba River, put on our bathing suits, and plunged into
the water. The river flows gently in the summer, but you have to be
careful not to crash into the rocks at the narrow sections.

<pic images/yuba.ps The Yuba River meanders through the landscape and invites you to swim.>

<pic images/yuba-current3.ps The fearless newsletter reporter in the raging waters of the Yuba River.>

Every few hundred meters, there are deeper sections, about 1.5m to 2.5m
deep, where you can actually swim. The river temperature is around 20
degrees Celsius, while the outside temperature in the scorching sun is an
estimated 40 degrees. We even shot a funny video of
<LINK>http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdH1QQeF28w|Angelika in the Yuba River</LINK>!

@Z: Top product: The Portable Deck Chair

<pic images/yuba-chair.ps Top product: The portable deck chair with sunshade.>

<em>Michael</em> 
Good thing we had our newly acquired portable deck chairs in the
trunk! I had bought the two foldable gizmos with integrated sunshades a
few weeks ago at the mountaineering outfitter REI in San Francisco.
The product is absolutely amazing. You can easily strap two of them
onto your back, and the two sunshades can be folded into disc-shaped
structures with a radius of about 50 cm. Each chair weighs about 4 kg
and comfortably accommodates an adult.

<pic images/chair-folded.ps The deck chair can be folded into a cylinder with a diameter of about 15 cm and a length of 70 cm, and can be comfortably carried on the back.>

You lie in it completely relaxed, extremely comfortable, and
back-friendly, with your head resting on an integrated pillow. I have
actually fallen asleep in it!

@Z: Recommendations On Yelp

<pic images/yelp.ps How I found a good auto glass specialist on Yelp.>

<em>Michael</em> 
Recently, Angelika came home with a huge crack in the windshield of
our car. Apparently, a car in front of her had kicked up a small
rock, causing a tiny chip that expanded over several days into a 30
cm long crack that could no longer be repaired. Windshields are
expensive; I had heard something about $800! Our circle of
acquaintances couldn't recommend a repair shop, so I did what
everyone does these days when they need a service and want to get
recommendations from complete strangers: I turned to
<LINK>http://yelp.com|yelp.com</LINK>.

On this free website, private individuals who have visited a business
or restaurant write down their opinions, and those looking for
something similar simply choose the highest-rated place on yelp.com.
In San Francisco, this has already led to businesses no longer
investing in advertising but instead focusing on delighting their
customers and hoping that those will recommend the place on yelp.com.
It also works brilliantly for doctors or hairdressers.

<pic images/windshield.ps The rocket shines with a new windshield.>

I was looking for a cheap new windshield, so I typed "Auto Glass
Repair" in the city of "San Francisco" and checked out the reviews of
the best shops. One immediately caught my eye: the shop "In & Out
Glass" in the notorious neighborhood of "Bayview/Hunters Point,"
which we've previously reported on, in <RBLINK>20080203#4</RBLINK>.
The area is somewhat shady, but due to the low rents, daring
entrepreneurs, like the auto glass repair shop run by Chinese
immigrants, also settle there. They have to perform exceptionally to
stay in business because anyone familiar with San Francisco flinches
at the mention of this neighborhood. On yelp.com, however, people
couldn't stop raving about the quick, proper, and affordable repair
services. And since I am known to fear nothing and no one, I went
there, got my windshield replaced in 45 minutes, and paid $160. I
think I will recommend the shop on yelp.com ...

Editorial Note: Yelp is suspected of manipulating reviews through
unfair practices. The article
<LINK>http://bit.ly/2p08MU7|Yelp and the Business of Extortion 2.0"</LINK>
shows some frightening examples. So
if you find a business with exclusively positive reviews, caution is
advised, as they might be bought.

Until the next newsletter! Your correspondents from San Francisco:

Angelika und Michael
