San Francisco, 12-08-2009

@Z: Our neighbors Do Not Understand The Organic Waste Bin

<pic images/garbage-outside.ps The new organic waste bin in the shared garage.>

<em>Angelika</em> I have already reported once that San Francisco has an
extensive recycling program (<RBLINK>20060215#4</RBLINK>). In the meantime, it
has been further improved, and all kinds of container lids, like bottle caps
and jam jar lids, now also go into our blue recycling bin. Most plastics as
well, so we no longer have to look for the numbers under the plastic containers
or bottles.

The green compost bin has also been around for a long time, but until
now it was rarely found in larger apartment buildings. However, since
mid-October, landlords can no longer avoid setting them up, as a law
in San Francisco now requires everyone to separate their waste.
Compost goes in the green bin, glass, paper, and plastic in the blue
bin, and residual waste in the black bin. The law is considered one
of the most comprehensive in the USA.

<pic images/garbage-sign.ps Shrimps can go in, milk cartons too, but no bottles.>

Those who do not comply will initially receive several warnings, and
then fines of $100 will rain down, which can escalate up to $1,000.
Currently, city officials are still trying to handle the
situation amicably. They are providing information intended to
encourage the citizens of San Francisco to properly fill the green
bins. The city provides the green bins free of charge. There was even
a gift for the kitchen: a well-sealing bucket about 30 cm high with a
sticker indicating what can be put inside.

<pic images/bio-trash.ps A small organic waste bin for the kitchen was provided for free by the city.>

It is amazing what we are allowed to throw into the organic waste
bin: the usual items like fruits, vegetables, used coffee filters,
eggshells, leaves, but also food scraps and used pizza boxes and
paper plates. And on and next to the organic waste bin, there are
well structured posters, making recycling as easy as
possible even for the biggest environmental grouch.

<pic images/garbage-inside.ps Which idiot throws empty plastic bottles into a organic waste bin?>

You don't even need to be able to read to participate, because the
posters show photos. This makes perfect sense in a city where many
residents don't speak English. Unfortunately, in our building, there
seem to be some neighbors who, despite the photos, can't figure out
what goes in which bin, because recently Michael opened the green bin
in the garage to dispose of our compost and saw plastic bottles.
Ahhh!

@Z: In The Clutches Of The Traffic Police

<pic images/police-behind.ps Yikes! A police car is chasing us!>

<em>Michael</em> 
In California and most other states, as is well known, the police do
not simply set up speed traps to then greedily send out payment
notices for fines by mail. Instead, the officer conducting the radar
measurement boldly turns on the light bar and siren of their Ford
"Crown Victoria," revs the engine, and chases after the speeder to
force them to stop. When the speeder pulls over to the right on the
shoulder, the officer parks their car just behind, gets out, usually
approaches the passenger window, and asks for "License and
Registration," meaning driver's license and vehicle documents. Tip:
Never forget your driver's license at home. If you can't show it, the
officer is allowed to have the car towed immediately! However, they
will only do this in exceptional cases, because if it later turns out
that the vehicle was driven by a legitimate license holder, the
police department must reimburse the costs. After the uniformed officer has
identified the driver, he then proceeds to ask
questions, and manually fills out a "ticket" form in a process that
takes about 15 minutes.

If a driver is operating the vehicle within the traffic regulations and the
vehicle is in perfect condition, police officers are actually
prohibited from stopping the car. That's why all the drunk drivers
tend to drive a bit slower than the speed limit, which you can often
witness late at night on Freeways 101 and 280. If a siren starts wailing
behind you,
you can assume that something is up. However, police officers are
very creative when it comes to finding a reason to stop a vehicle. A
broken brake light is enough, and in some Hollywood movies, the
officer might even break the headlight: "Which brake light? Oh, that
one (crash) there!" But, of course, you shouldn't believe everything
you see in the movies.

<pic images/police-donut.ps Police officers like to eat donuts.>

In America, people commonly refer to police officers as "cops." This
is by no means presumptuous or offensive; in fact, police officers
often refer to each other this way. However, the official term for
those who drive patrol cars is "officer," and if you want to be very
polite, you should address them as such. You should never call a
police officer "sir," as this is considered sycophantic and might
make them suspicious. On the other hand, the police officer will
address the person they have stopped as "sir" or "madam." So, if you
want to ask for the nearest donut shop, you simply say, "Officer, can
you direct me to the next donut shop?" and hopefully, the officer
will point you in the right direction.

Okay, this question might come across as somewhat provocative,
because practically all American cop jokes start with a law
enforcement officer eating these American donuts. We happen to live
directly across from a 24-hour donut shop, and I can confirm that
this is by no means a clichee: American police officers are
absolutely fond of these sweet little things.

<pic images/donut-shop.ps The 24-hour donut shop around the corner significantly increases the police presence in the neighborhood.>

Another note: The derogatory term "Bulle" in Germany doesn't have the
same effect in America, because Americans associate bulls with
strength and endurance. A strong stock market rally is called a "bull
market," and basketball teams like the Chicago Bulls choose this name
intentionally. Americans are truly unaware of the connotations of
brute force and stupidity associated with the term in the German
language.

No, to insult an American police officer, one uses the word "pig."
This is not even punishable, as the American Constitution grants
citizens almost unlimited freedom of speech (<RBLINK>20001204#5</RBLINK>).
However, the offended police officer might then employ all legal,
semi-legal, and sometimes illegal means to get back at the offender.
Just take a look at the secretly filmed
<LINK>http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gAsUOZpPN9w|video of a skateboarder arrested in San Francisco</LINK>
to catch a glimpse of the
aggressiveness of American police officers.

<pic images/highway-patrol.ps Speed trap in American: Usually highly visible.>

A "ticket" falls into one of three categories: a "Parking Violation"
(a harmless parking ticket that you simply pay), a "Notice to
Appear," or a "Notice to Correct." If a cop catches a speeder with
their radar gun, they issue a "Notice to Appear," which is a summons to
appear in court. You heard correctly, every so-called "Moving
Violation" (this includes running a stop sign or making an illegal
turn) is adjudicated in traffic court. You don't always have to
appear there, but more on that later.

<pic images/pulled-over.ps A police car has signaled a vehicle to stop. Now it's important to keep a cool head.>

If the police officer stopped the car only because a brake light was
broken, the driver receives a "Notice to Correct," commonly known as
a "Fix-it Ticket." This requires the driver to repair the broken
light within a specified period. After completing the repair, the
driver also pays the penalty fee, and then there is no further legal
action.

Once the police officer has finished writing the ticket, he asks the
driver to sign it on the spot. By signing, the driver does not admit
any guilt but merely agrees to appear in court. Caution: Anyone who
refuses to sign will be promptly arrested and may have to spend the
night (and possibly even the weekend) in custody. This is because
when the traffic officer turns on his siren, he is effectively
placing the speeder under arrest. Instead of arresting harmless
speeders, filling up jails, and incurring costs, the "ticket" system
was created to expedite the legal process from arrest to sentencing.
The driver does not have to pay bail to remain free until the court
hearing, but by signing, he confirms his agreement to appear on the
scheduled date.

<pic images/dui.ps Very bad: Drinking, smoking, and driving at the same time.>

The fine to be paid later consists of a base fine and a penalty
assessment, with the latter adding a multiple to the actual fine.
With this surcharge, municipalities officially support police
training, contribute money to the state, and finance the construction
of courthouses and prisons. For example, if you drive 85 where 65 is
allowed, the base fine is $50, but with all the surcharges, it
quickly becomes $290. In return, the new courthouse gets a
first-class white paint job, and hordes of new police trainees
undergo training to become radar gun operators.

Here it comes: Technically speaking, this fine is the bail in a
summary proceeding! If the driver does not contest the ticket
afterwards, they simply do not schedule a court date, but instead pay
the fine and leave this "bail" with the court by not appearing at the
non-existent court date. This effectively concludes the "proceedings."

If you actually want to contest the ticket, you call the phone number
listed on the fine notice and request a court date. At this date,
the driver must then appear, failing to do
so would be a serious offense. The proceedings usually take place
months later at the "Superior Court" closest to the location of the
offense.

In court, a ticket is only valid if the driver acted either
intentionally or with gross negligence (criminally negligent). The
police officer, who also appears in court, must prove this. If the
police officer does not appear at the scheduled court date, the
defendant is automatically acquitted. Various rumors are circulating
on the internet, claiming that police officers often do not appear in
court because it cuts into their time off, or that some clever
traffic offenders call the police station to inquire about the
officer's vacation times and then request to reschedule the hearing
to that date--but supposedly, all of this is nonsense.

To expedite legal proceedings, some cops try to create a friendly
impression even while writing a ticket. They have been thoroughly
trained to elicit confessions from stopped drivers without their
knowledge. The facts they gather are noted on the ticket during the
traffic stop to establish an airtight case in court later.

<pic images/cop-moto.ps Even professional racers must pay attention to motorcycles approaching from behind.>

Experts warn: "A police officer with a ticket book in hand is never
your friend!" A typical question is: "Do you know how fast you were
going?" If you respond with, "Well, a bit faster than allowed," the
officer will immediately start scribbling into their book, as the
driver has just admitted to speeding and cannot deny it later in
court. It is supposedly better to simply answer the question with
"Yes, I do." If the cop presses further and you plan to outsmart him
in court, you should politely but firmly say, "I don't want to talk
about it." This is, of course, a balancing act, as angering the
officer could lead to significant trouble. As mentioned earlier,
American police officers can become very aggressive if you mess with
them. The same applies to the question, "Have you been drinking?"
Most drivers respond with, "Just one or two beers, no more."
According to expert advice, this is wrong if you have indeed drunk
too much. In such a precarious situation, it is also supposedly
better to say you don't want to talk about it.

And under no circumstances should you inform the police officer that
you plan to contest the ticket in court, because then he will make
sure to document the situation very precisely and memorize every
detail, so that he can later provide the correct answers in court as
if on cue. If you say nothing, the officer often issues hundreds of
tickets by the time the court date is scheduled months later and
probably only vaguely remembers a single one. If he then gets the
facts mixed up in court or contradicts himself, the judge often
acquits the speeder.

A police officer is not allowed to search the car, by the way.
However, if there is a lit joint in the ashtray or an empty beer can
on the passenger seat, he is allowed to collect these as evidence. In
general, California traffic law does not permit any open containers
with alcoholic beverages in the driver's compartment. If the officer
smells something suspicious, he will ask if the driver consents to a
search. If the driver says "No," the officer may only search if he
has "probable cause" to believe that there are weapons or illegal
items inside the car.

Here are some facts from the world of the California Highway Patrol:
The police vehemently deny that there are monthly quotas for officers
regarding the number of tickets to be issued. Rumor has it, however, that law
enforcement becomes particularly busy at the end of the month
because, like all Americans, they tend to procrastinate on fulfilling
their duties until it absolutely can't be delayed any longer. Whether
or not the quotas officially exist, every officer is evaluated, and a
radar operator who issues fewer tickets than their colleagues will
undoubtedly be dismissed at some point. There is certainly a deadline
by which the supervisor writes evaluations, so there are also periods
when officers are more diligent in issuing tickets than usual.

<pic images/fight-ticket.ps (#3) The book "Fight your Ticket and Win in California" provides useful tips.>

You might be wondering how do I know all this? In the book.
<LINK>http://www.amazon.com/dp/1413310303|Fight your Ticket and Win in California</LINK>
(Figure (#3)), a lawyer specializing
in traffic law describes the laws and the unwritten rules. I also
recommend the website
<LINK>http://www.highwayrobbery.net|highwayrobbery.net</LINK>
which warns against the scams of speed
camera operators and provides information on how to contest their
exorbitant fines.

By the way, I personally have never received a ticket for speeding.
When 65 mph (105 km/h) is allowed, I usually set the cruise control
to 80 mph (130 km/h) and focus on keeping the car in the lane and
observing the scenery both ahead and through the rearview mirror.
Since ancient times, the Ford company has been supplying police
regiments with the "Crown Victoria" model for traffic control. Of
course, they install quite a powerful engine in the standard model so
that police officers can easily keep up with speeders. With some
practice, you can recognize the model from a distance in the rearview
mirror, even at night, because the headlights have a distinctive
shape. Other models of police cruisers do exist, but they are relatively rare in our
area.

<pic images/police-car.ps Not as bold as it seems: The police car is a dummy on the grounds of the Universal Studios.>

Not all radar cops position themselves on the side of the road.
Sometimes a police car approaches much faster from behind than the
rest of the traffic, which immediately catches the eye in the
rearview mirror. And be careful: some police officers also drive in
the far-right lane, slightly slower than the speed limit. They are
waiting for someone to zoom past five lanes over to the left at
breakneck speed. You have to be as watchful as a hawk--but that's
always a good idea in traffic. Many Americans are already fully
occupied with driving straight and fail to maintain this all-around
awareness--and blindly speed into speed traps.

With my method, I reach my destination faster than most speeders, can
practically see all speed traps kilometers in advance, and the
probability of being pulled over for going 15 mph over the limit is
maybe 50/50. By the way, the other day I sped past an exceptionally
well-hidden speed trap on Freeway 101 at 82 mph (132 km/h), but the
cop was probably waiting for bigger offenders, as he didn't make a
move.

@Z: Classic TV Series: "CHiPs"

<pic images/chips.ps In the series "CHiPs," "Jon Baker" and "Frank 'Ponch' Poncherello" cruise around on their police Harleys and catch speeding hippies.>

<em>Michael</em> 
You also have to watch out for traffic police officers on
motorcycles, but only when the sun is shining. In the seventies, a TV
show aired in America (and in 1989 in Germany), called
<LINK>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CHiPs|"CHiPs"</LINK>,
in which two traffic police officers on motorcycles take down
traffic offenders one after another. The three capital letters 'CHP'
in 'CHiPs' stand for 'California Highway Patrol,' the official
designation of the California highway police.

<pic images/chips-gesindel.ps This long-haired riffraff with the clown car will be surprised by the ticket from the motorcycle cops.>

In the series, "Jon Baker" is the sensible one of the duo that
patrols the highways around the Los Angeles area. His partner, "Frank
'Ponch' Poncherello," shines as the reckless goof who gets provoked
by hippies, can't assert himself, and regularly wrecks his motorcycle
through avoidable driving mistakes.

<pic images/chips2.ps Typical 70s: Stunning-looking traffic police officers in tight-fitting uniforms.>

The two muscular cops also wear skin-tight uniforms, which is why the
series still finds great appeal in the gay scene today. Additionally,
the mannerisms and fashion of the 70s are now fully back in vogue.
Every good video rental store offers the DVDs. Indulge in the past
for a fun evening and watch as two dashing cops chase contentious
long-haired riffraff!

@Z: PG&E Smart Meter

<pic images/smartmeter.ps Is the smart meter from the electric utility really that smart?>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Michael has indeed in <RBLINK>20091104#9</RBLINK>
reported on the somewhat medieval methods
still being used to read electricity meters in San Francisco. However,
modernization is already in full swing, as so-called
<LINK>http://www.pge.com/myhome/customerservice/meter/smartmeter/howsystemworks/|"Smart Meters"</LINK>
are gradually replacing them not only in San Francisco but throughout
California.

The new digital meters measure electricity and gas consumption, and
the data is then wirelessly transmitted to the gas and electricity
companies (which is PG&E in San Francisco). The customer can then monitor
their current electricity usage at any time on the home computer, as the
consumption is read out hourly. PG&E hopes to encourage customers to
adjust their consumption in the long run, enticed by
variable, time-of-day-based pricing.

Interestingly, the "Smart Meters" don't seem to be as smart as their
name suggests. Some customers who already have a new digital meter
are complaining that their electricity and gas bills have suddenly
increased dramatically (for some customers by several hundred
dollars). However, PG&E claims that it's not due to the meters, but
perhaps due to the lack of intelligence of the customers. Upon
reviewing the high bills, it was sometimes found that some customers
hadn't even installed the new meter yet, or the higher bill was due
to penalty fees for unpaid bills. In any case, independent experts
are now supposed to test the meters. A
<LINK>http://earth2tech.com/2009/11/19/lesson-learned-from-the-pge-sm
art-meter-suit-its-a-communication-problem|website summarizes the complaints</LI
NK>
from the customers' perspective.

<em>Michael</em> 
By the way, recently all sorts of gadgets have been popping up in
terms of electricity consumption measurement: Google has released the
<LINK>http://www.google.org/powermeter|Powermeter software</LINK>
and
<LINK>http://www.theenergydetective.com/ted-5000-overview.html|The Energy Detective</LINK>
from another company displays the current electricity consumption of the
entire household on the living room table. This way, the master of the house
immediately knows if a housemate is carelessly wasting electricity again!

@Z: Toronto, Canada

<pic images/torwave.ps Newsletter reporter with Toronto in the background>

<em>Michael</em> 
At the end of October, we were drawn to Canada, to the city of
Toronto. The city, known for its multicultural image, is located far
in the east, very close to the border with the USA and the state of
New York.

Canadians are supposedly somewhat more peaceful than Americans;
however, but according to our observations, some of them drive recklessly
and are honking their horns
incessantly as if they've lost their minds. This is quite
noticeable if you come from California, because there, no one gets
upset so quickly just because a car cuts them off. By the way, the
U.S. state with the least amount of honking is Hawaii, where only the tourists
honk.

<pic images/ridewalk.ps Road users in Toronto>

But back to Toronto: The city is suffering, similar to Vancouver
(<RBLINK>20050701#1</RBLINK>) in western Canada,
from disfiguring mass housing high rises. The 4.2
million people undoubtedly need to find accommodation somewhere, but
there are hardly any old buildings or organically developed
neighborhoods to show for it. Everything we have seen of Canada so
far suggests the suspicion that at some point in the 1960s, masses of
people moved to the big cities, and their housing needs were met by
the cheapest available architects.

<pic images/toro-skyline.ps Toronto tends towards unattractive block-style construction ...>

<pic images/toro-flatiron.ps ... but a few old buildings have been preserved.>

Toronto is located on the northern shore of Lake Ontario, which is
311 by 85 kilometers in size! Facing the city is a small
island inhabited by defiant hippies who built small houses there in
the 1960s and then stubbornly refused to leave in the 1990s when the
city wanted to turn the island into a park. A regularly operating
ferry brings the hippies to the city in the morning and streams of
tourists to the car-free island, all for the bargain price of
CAN$6.50 per person! We visited the charming little houses, and some
hippies even rake the leaves that fall from the trees in autumn,
outrageous! By the way, there are no autumn-colored deciduous trees
in San Francisco; we completely lack the "autumn" season, as summer
transitions directly into the rainy winter season, and deciduous
trees are also absent.

<pic images/leaves.ps And who gathers the leaves in the fall, yes, who?>

Canada has the reputation of being more socialist than the USA, with
legally regulated health insurance and various social benefits that
are unfamiliar to Americans. Nevertheless, more homeless people
loiter on the streets of Toronto than in comparable climate regions
of the USA.

<pic images/homeless.ps A homeless person has set up camp in front of the town hall.>

<pic images/sleep.ps He who sleeps, does not sin.>

What stood out positively were the many city districts specialized in
certain immigrant groups, which are widely spread out but can be
easily reached with the impeccably functioning subway, tram, and bus
system. However, the authorities still need to learn that not
everyone knows that a bus ride costs $2.75. Even the bus driver only
reluctantly and incredulously provided this information upon request.
Regardless, there is a "Chinatown" (of course laughable compared to
New York or San Francisco, but still), a "Greektown" with Greek
restaurants (a rarity in California), and the quite alternative/hip
Kensington Market, where you can buy high-quality food at reasonable
prices, even decent cheese and real rolls!

<pic images/liquor.ps Alcohol is only available in liquor stores in Ontario.>

However, it seems that the government in the Canadian province of
Ontario believes that its residents would all succumb to drinking if
the state did not regulate alcohol consumption with an iron fist.
Only so-called "Liquor Stores" exist, which sell nothing but
alcoholic beverages at completely absurd prices and are practically
always closed when the average citizen thinks about purchasing
alcoholic drinks (in the evening). I have read that these stores
collectively pay a billion dollars in licensing fees to the state
annually. Therefore, it is not surprising that every attempt to
liberalize alcohol sales has failed so far.

<pic images/peameal.ps Angelika with the Canadian Leberkässemmel: The "Peameal," a piece of roasted ham on a Kaiser roll.>

@Z: Niagara Falls

<pic images/falls-top.ps Angelika at the Niagara Falls.>

<em>Michael</em> 
Niagara Falls, the magnificent natural spectacle where three
million liters of water rush down a 54-meter-high wall every second,
should not be missed. However, twelve million visitors think
similarly each year, and the touristy surroundings in the town of
"Niagara Falls" in the Canadian province of Ontario are quite
bizarre. Fortunately, by the end of October, it was already the
off-season, and the hustle and bustle had subsided, but many stalls
and restaurants were also closed.

<pic images/nia-panorama.ps Niagara: On the left, the "American Falls," on the right, the semicircular "Horseshoe Falls.>

Niagara" is pronounced "Nigh-Aah-Gra" in American English, with the
emphasis on "Aah". The word originates from Native Americans, in
whose language it means "thundering water." The Native Americans
regarded Niagara Falls as a sacred site, and it wasn't until 1678
that a European Jesuit priest saw them. In 1801, the first honeymoon
tourists arrived, and nowadays, casinos, an amusement park with a
Ferris wheel, a tower with a restaurant, golf courses, and various
organized attractions offer the perfect day trip for the American
family.

<pic images/nia-stands.ps Due to the off-season, sales stands in Niagara Falls have already been closed.>

Everything is geared towards profit maximization. To get from the
small town down to the falls, you can either explore a deliberately
elongated maze of streets with barriers and no proper signposts or
pay 2 dollars to take a small funicular about 50 meters down a slope.
Naturally, there are no stairs next to it. If you buy a ticket for
the elevator that goes down to the blasted tunnels right next to the
waterfall, you can get a discount by purchasing it as a package with
a film screening. Once back at the top, a business-savvy photography
team offers previously taken and now enlarged 18x24cm photos for 20
dollars, showing participants in funny yellow raincoats with a
digitally inserted waterfall (one by day, one by night). At the end
of October, there were only a handful of visitors at each attraction,
but in the peak season, the area is probably some kind of antechamber
to hell.

<pic images/nia-barrel-out.ps The barrel of a daredevil named John Munday, who went over the Niagara Falls in it in 1993.>

Between 1901 and 2003, there were 16 documented cases of "Dare
Devils" who plunged down the falls for fun. About two-thirds
survived. It all began in 1901 with a 64-year-old schoolteacher who
had a 1.60-meter-high barrel made, padded it with a mattress, climbed
inside with her cat, and let the current pull her over the falls.
Amazingly, the barrel remained intact; the teacher survived and was
subsequently pulled from the river and then out of the barrel by
hired helpers.

<pic images/nia-barrel-in.ps Will the newsletter reporter also swim down the Niagara Falls in a barrel?>

The attempt of an Englishman in the year 1920 failed because the
overconfident man attached a 50kg anvil to his legs for balance
purposes in his barrel. The barrel survived the fall, but the anvil
plummeted into the depths with the Englishman. Only his right arm
remained in the barrel.

<pic images/nia-fines.ps Fines for Niagara jumpers in the mirror of time.>

Jumping down Niagara Falls is, of course, prohibited, but
Canadian John Munday managed to do it twice. A video in a small local
exhibition shows how his friends drove a large moving truck backwards
to the iron railing on the riverbank about 150 meters before the
falls, right in the tourist zone. They placed a wooden plank over the
barrier and rolled an armored orange diving capsule with a 2-meter
diameter, with the stuntman inside, directly from the truck into the
water! The Canadian park rangers on site can, in an emergency, shut
off the water via a dam located before the falls and have indeed done
so to strand daredevils before the falls. But John Munday's team was
apparently a bit too quick, as the diving capsule sped down the
waterfall as planned, to the cheers of the tourists. In 2003, an
American even survived the plunge without any aids, wearing only his
regular clothes. He had to pay a fine of $4,500 and was banned from
ever entering Canada again.

@Z: Top Product: Egg Nog

<pic images/eggnog.ps Eggnog without liqueur: the Christmas drink 'Egg Nog'>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Christmas is just around the corner, and the season of eggnog is
beginning. On supermarket shelves, cartons labeled "Egg Nog" suddenly
appear, not far from the milk. The slightly yellowish-looking drink
is made from milk, liquid cream, sugar, eggs, and spices like nutmeg.
It is served both cold and hot, and can be enhanced with rum,
whiskey, or brandy.

Allegedly, the drink originally comes from England, and it was, of
course, homemade and not bought in ready-made bags. There is also
some debate about the name. One thing is certain, the "Egg" in "Egg
Nog" undoubtedly refers to eggs. However, whether "Nog" refers to
a small vessel used in the past or is a short form of "Egg and Grog"
is not exactly known. In any case, I am absolutely crazy about the
"Egg Nog Latte," which, for example, sold at the coffee shop Martha's around
the corner from us. This special Cafe Latte consists of
espresso and a mixture of Egg Nog and milk. Delicious, and only
available during the Christmas season!

@Z: Mail Art

<pic images/aquarium.ps Mail Art: Aquarium>

<em>Angelika</em> 
In the age of emails, Twitter, Facebook, mobile phones, and
electronic greeting cards, we hardly get any handwritten letters
in the mail anymore.
Letter writing seems to be on the brink of
extinction, just like vinyl records and film photography.

Now, I am absolutely not an email grouch, but I have always enjoyed
writing and receiving letters. In my tender youth, for example, I had
various pen pals, and even when Michael and I had just met, we
exchanged letters at least once a week because we lived in different
cities, there was no internet yet, and Michael hated talking on the
phone. I also belong to the crazy ones who never throw away a proper
letter, and over the years, various boxes have accumulated. Much to
Michael's dismay, I also print out all emails that have a letter-like
character. It's so nice to read old letters!

I even enrolled in several courses on the subject of mail art (postal
art) at the "Center for the Book" for this reason (<RBLINK>20070427#11</RBLINK>).
In the conventional sense, mail art means that artworks and objects
are sent using the postal service: letters, cards, objects -- and
even the envelope itself -- become works of art.

Many mail art enthusiasts love to test what crazy things can make
their way through the postal system. This is a particular challenge
in the age of terror fears and ever-advancing automation, with
scanners, sorting machines, and conveyor belts doing the work. For
example, my friend Conny sent me a kitchen sponge sealed in plastic
wrap and a large plastic cup with a homemade, crocheted fish. The
American postal service didn't hold back and delivered everything
properly. Our mailman even rang the doorbell because the so-called
"aquarium" didn't fit in our mailbox. By the way, he thought the idea
was absolutely brilliant. One of the golden rules of mail art is to
get along well with your mail carrier and your post office.

The mail art movement, much like the early days of the internet
before it was used by everyone, has almost anarchic traits.
Commercial interests are frowned upon, as mail art is understood as a
counter-movement to the art and gallery scene. Anyone can engage in
mail art. There is no committee that decides who belongs to the
circle of mail artists and who does not. The sender has no
expectations of the recipient, although it is considered good
etiquette for the recipient to send something back to the sender.

TODO

With the so-called
<LINK>http://www.artistampnews.com/dated_calls|mail art calls</LINK>
Someone sets a theme and calls on mail art enthusiasts to create and
submit mail art related to that theme. Example themes include: ham,
view from the window, self-portraits, flying. These calls come from
both individuals and museums or galleries. However, the following
rules apply: there is no jury, no fees are charged, and submissions
are not returned. If an exhibition takes place, everyone who submits
something is automatically included in the exhibition. The organizer
of the "mail art call" then sends a documentation of the project in
the form of a small catalog or booklet to all participants, which is
also an unwritten rule.

Mail art is, of course, not just an American phenomenon but is
practiced worldwide. However, the American collage artist Ray Johnson
is considered the founding father of mail art. As early as the late
1950s, he sent art projects to friends and acquaintances with
instructions to add to them, further develop them, and then send them
back or pass them on.

Two other American artists have become known for their own creations
of postage stamps: Michael Thompson and Michael Hernandez de Luna.
Both not only produce stamps with highly political or controversial
content but also stick them on letters, hoping that the postal
service won't notice and will deliver them. Franking mail with fake
stamps ("faux postage") is, of course, illegal, and the two artists
are therefore on the American postal service's blacklist. There are
many mail art artists who design their own stamps, but most of them
also attach the real stamps alongside the fake ones to avoid running
afoul of the law.

The translation from German to English is: "Greetings from the city
of noble arts:

The translation of "Angelika und Michael" to English is "Angelika and
Michael.

