San Francisco, 12-22-2009

@Z: Christmas 2009

<pic images/xmas2009.ps Christmas 2009>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Christmas and the year 2010 are just around the corner. While most of
you are busy with the final Christmas preparations, statesmen in
Copenhagen are debating how to avert the climate catastrophe, and the
struggle over healthcare reform continues in the American Senate.

TODO

The all-important question is whether the Senate will manage to vote
on the bill before the Christmas break, thereby bringing us all a
step closer to a national health insurance. Because even if the
Senate votes and the senators pass the reform, the historic step of a
health insurance for all is far from complete, as the whole thing
then has to go back to the House of Representatives and be reconciled
with the version of the reform passed there.

The mills grind slowly. Yet we really need the reform urgently
because the US healthcare system is seriously ailing. So that you can
check if you know the facts, I have put together a small quiz for you
below.

In this spirit, we wish our loyal newsletter readers a Merry
Christmas and a healthy New Year!


The translation of "Angelika und Michael" to English is "Angelika and
Michael.

Sure, please provide the text you would like translated into English.

The statement you provided is in German and English, but it does not
specify who claimed it. Therefore, I cannot provide the name of the
person who made this statement.

a) Arnold Schwarzenegger, the Governor of California

b) Barack Obama, President of the United States of America

c) Richard Shelby, Senator from Alabama

Sure, please provide the text you would like translated into English.
<em>The translation of the sentence "2. Wieviele Amerikaner haben
keinen Krankenversicherungsschutz?" to English is: "2. How many
Americans do not have health insurance?</em> 

Approximately 36 million

b) Approximately 46 million

c) Approximately 56 million

Sure, please provide the text you would like translated into English.
3. How many Americans die prematurely each year because they have no
health insurance or inadequate health insurance?

The number "45.000" in English is "forty-five thousand.

b) 80,000

c) 100,000

Sure, please provide the text you would like translated into English.
4. In what position are the USA according to the latest...
<LINK>http://www.who.int/whosis/whostat/EN_WHS09_Full.pdf|Statistics
of the World Health Organization</LINK>
In the global comparison of countries with regard to infant
mortality?

a) Place 7

b) Place 17

c) Place 41

Sure, please provide the text you would like translated into English.
5. According to the latest statistics from the World Health
Organization, what is the ranking of the USA in terms of maternal
mortality during childbirth?

a) 4th place

b) Place 24

c) Place 34

Sure, please provide the text you would like translated into English.
6. According to the latest statistics from the World Health
Organization, what rank do the USA hold in terms of life expectancy?

a) Place 15

b) Place 31

c) Place 42

Sure, please provide the text you would like translated into English.
7. Which of the following American presidents have attempted to
introduce a national health insurance (multiple answers are
possible)?

The name "George Washington" is already in English. It refers to the
first President of the United States. If you need more information or
context, please let me know!

The translation of "b) Theodore Roosevelt" to English is the same:
"b) Theodore Roosevelt." The name does not change as it is a proper
noun.

The translation of "c) Henry Truman" to English is the same: "c)
Henry Truman." It appears to be a name, which does not require
translation.

d) Richard Nixon

The text "e) Ronald Reagan" is already in English. Ronald Reagan was
the 40th President of the United States, serving from 1981 to 1989.
If you need more information or context, please let me know!

The text "f) Bill Clinton" is already in English. Bill Clinton is the
name of the 42nd President of the United States, who served from 1993
to 2001. If you meant to translate something else or need further
information, please provide more context.

The text "g) George W. Bush" is already in English. George W. Bush is
the name of the 43rd President of the United States. If you need
further information or context, please let me know!

Barack Obama

Sure, please provide the text you would like translated into English.
8. Which selected American population group has benefited from a
mandatory health insurance since 1965?

a) Children under 5

b) Children between 5-14

c) Persons aged 65 and over

The German word "Auflösung" translates to "resolution" in English.

The text you provided appears to be a list of answers or options,
rather than a sentence or phrase in a specific language. If you need
assistance with something else, please provide more context or
details.

