San Francisco, 10-17-2010

@Z: Elections As a Mudslinging Contest

<pic images/whitman-lies.ps Meg Whitman with a lying nose: This is how Jerry Brown promotes himself as governor.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
On November 2, congressional elections will once again take place
here in the USA, and the final phase of the political mudslinging has
begun. In the House of Representatives, 435 seats are up for
election, and in the American Senate, one-third of the 100 seats.
Experts predict that the Democrats are highly likely to lose their
majority in both houses, and Obama, like Clinton before him, will
face a politically hostile Congress. This would spell the end for
further reform attempts. The country is polarized, and many citizens
are angry. The left wing of the Democrats feels that Obama's reforms
did not go far enough, and the Republicans are now blocking every
Democratic proposal on principle. The economy is recovering very
slowly, and the unemployment rate is still almost 10%, even 12% in
California.

TODO

Now it is part of American tradition for flamboyant individuals to
run for political office. For a while, it seemed to be the norm in
California, for example, to transition from an acting career to
politics. However, a new trend is emerging in our sunny state: former
CEOs are aiming for Sacramento or Washington. Meg Whitman, who led
the internet auction house eBay, is running for the position of
California governor for the Republican Party. She invested $140
million from her personal fortune into the campaign, resulting in her
advertisement playing every time we turn on the TV. Another former
CEO is also in the race: Carly Fiorina, the former head of
Hewlett-Packard and also a Republican, wants to represent California
in the Senate.

<pic images/carly-fiorina-outsourcing.ps In this ad, Senator Barbara
Boxer claims that Carly Fiorina only wants to enrich herself.>

Interestingly, the two former company executives are running against
seasoned Democratic politicians. Jerry Brown, now 72 years old, had
politics in his blood from birth. His father, Pat Brown, had already
held the governor's office, and the son followed in his footsteps,
serving as California's governor from 1975 to 1983. He then held the
office of Mayor of Oakland from 1999 to 2007 and has been
California's Attorney General since 2007. Carly Fiorina, on the other
hand, is facing Democrat Barbara Boxer, who served as a
representative in the House for 10 years and has been a continuous
member of the Senate since 1993.

The question now arises whether the position of a company CEO
prepares one to be an efficient and good politician. One can be sure
that Jerry Brown and Barbara Boxer know all the political tricks in
Sacramento and Washington. Thus, Meg Whitman and Carly Fiorina are
trying to distance themselves from the old political guard, promoting
the idea that they want to break up the entrenched structures.
However, many have failed in this endeavor, not least Arnold
Schwarzenegger, and not to mention Barack Obama.

For neither a senator nor a governor operates in a vacuum and can act
as a big shot. In California, the issues lie within the system or the
Californian constitution: Passing the budget or tax increases
requires a two-thirds majority in the Californian parliament. The
extremely popular referendums ("Propositions") also shake the state,
as their outcomes often massively restrict the parliament's room for
maneuver, either by dictating or limiting what the Californian state
spends tax money on.

One of the most notorious ballot initiatives in California is the
so-called Proposition 13, which came into effect in 1978 and
ultimately ensures that homeowners pay very little in property taxes,
which has a devastating impact on the California budget. It would
certainly make sense to roll back Proposition 13, but no politician
would ever win an election with such proposals. And so everything
remains the same. However, after the last budget debacle in 2009,
there were efforts to fundamentally change something. Citizen
initiatives were formed, such as
<LINK>http://www.repaircalifornia.org|Repair California" is already
in English. If you meant to translate it from another language,
please provide the original text.</LINK>
The translation to English is: "who sought a change to the California
constitution to make California governable again. Unfortunately, the
citizens' initiative ran out of money.

<pic images/jerry-brown-failure.ps Meg Whitman calls Jerry Brown a
lifelong failure.>

The congressional elections are furthermore in the stranglehold of
the so-called Tea Party movement. This right-wing conservative
protest movement seems to be angry at everything and everyone, and
wants to abolish the state, taxes, and all social programs as much as
possible. The movement's followers chose its name in reference to the
Boston Tea Party of 1773. In Boston, there was an uprising of
citizens who resisted the tax policy of the British colonial power
and angrily threw the heavily taxed tea into Boston Harbor. However,
columnist Thomas Friedman ironically dubbed the Tea Party movement
the "Tea Kettle Movement" in the New York Times because the followers
reminded him of a tea kettle releasing steam. New York's Mayor
Bloomberg also mentioned in an interview that angry slogans alone are
not enough to make politics. One could dismiss the movement as the
work of some crackpots. Unfortunately, however, many Tea Party
sympathizers won the Republican Party's nomination and prevailed
against moderate candidates of the party in the primaries (e.g., in
the states of Alaska and Delaware). Sarah Palin, the former
vice-presidential candidate, has meanwhile risen to become the idol
of the movement.

The movement first came into the spotlight during Obama's stimulus
program, as it protested massively against the renewed government
spending that increased the budget deficit to stimulate the economy.
The financial bailouts for the banks were also a thorn in their side,
as was the healthcare reform. According to the latest surveys, almost
20% of the American population now aligns with the Tea Party. Its
supporters are typically white, male, married, and over 45. However,
there are no efforts underway to establish a third party alongside
the Republicans and Democrats, as the movement is made up of too many
individual groups.

<pic images/boxer-salary-doubled.ps The commercial for Carly Fiorina
as a senator highlights Barbara Boxer's wrinkles and criticizes her
high politician's salary.>

Funnily enough, the satirist Jon Stewart, who became a cult figure
through his Daily Show, has started a kind of counter-movement. He is
currently organizing a rally that will take place on October 30th in
Washington and runs under the motto:
<LINK>http://www.rallytorestoresanity.com|Rally to Restore Sanity" is
already in English. It refers to an event organized by Jon Stewart
and Stephen Colbert in 2010, aimed at promoting reasoned discussion
and reducing political polarization.</LINK>
Rally to Restore Sanity." He is expressing his discontent over the
fact that approximately 20% of the population, with their extreme
views, are determining politics and television news in the USA. The
whole thing initially started as a reaction to the "Restoring Honor"
demonstration conducted by the conservative TV and radio commentator
Glenn Beck on August 28 in Washington. Beck is, of course, closely
associated with the Tea Party movement. One might dismiss Jon
Stewart's efforts as merely a comedic show, but Jon Stewart is
extremely popular in liberal circles and can be sure that many will
either be present live in Washington on October 30 or follow the
rally on television. The hope is that the spectacle will shake many
voters who are close to the Democratic Party out of their lethargy
and lead them to the polls on November 2.

@Z: The translation of "Weiße Zähne" to English is "White Teeth.

<pic images/white-teeth.ps Americans place great value on having
beautiful white teeth.>

<em>Michael</em> 
If you work in America as a politician, in sales, at a counter, or as
a real estate agent, it is absolutely necessary to have perfectly
straight and white teeth. Anyone looking for a life partner with
yellowish or crooked teeth can forget about it or only laugh behind
their hand.

<pic images/schaeuble.ps The translation to English is: "With these
tusks, he would hardly work in politics in America: Finance Minister
Wolfgang Schäuble.>

It always strikes me when watching the Tagesschau on internet
television how Finance Minister Schäuble unabashedly shows his
ghastly teeth to the camera. Someone like that would never get into
office in America; the voters would cringe in disgust in front of
their TVs!

One might not think it possible, but even adults at my advanced age
still wear braces in America. The wire monstrosities of the last
century have been replaced by nearly invisible "Invisalign" plastic
aligners, so you might not even notice that a colleague is having
their teeth straightened.

<pic images/mall-whitener.ps Even in shopping malls, there are now
stations ...>

Even my dental hygienist, who always scrapes the plaque off my teeth
in the practice before the doctor comes in (in America, this is done
by the so-called "hygienist" and not the dentist themselves), has
already suggested that I should get my slightly crooked teeth
straightened. I laughed and replied that I would seriously consider
it if I were still looking for a partner. Later, when the dentist
came in and, without knowing about our previous conversation, also
suggested braces, the hygienist immediately interrupted: "I already
told him, but he likes the European look!

<pic images/mall-whitener2.ps The phrase translates to English as:
"... on which one can bleach their teeth.>

The ultra-white teeth displayed by showbiz personalities have long
since become the standard for the average consumer. Hardly any
toothpaste sells without whitening agents, and drugstores offer a
variety of bleaching products that you can apply to your teeth
overnight. Professional bleaching procedures are no longer found only
in dental practices. Recently, I noticed a stand in a shopping mall
where shoppers publicly sat in chairs to put a UV light-emitting tube
in their mouths! The next step, I expect, will be a mobile bleaching
truck that drives through neighborhoods, inviting people to whiten
their teeth at a discount with slogans like "Bleach three times, pay
twice.

@Z: Surfing course in San Diego

<pic images/san-diego-pb.ps The boardwalk in San Diego's "Pacific
Beach" neighborhood.>

<em>Michael</em> 
Over the Labor Day weekend, we zipped down to San Diego to test the
ocean's water temperature, which was about five degrees warmer there
(a more acceptable 18 degrees instead of 13). At a surf shop, we
rented hippie bikes to leisurely ride along the boardwalk for two
hours. After the tour, we returned the bikes and discovered that the
shop also offered surfing lessons. For $80, you could spend an hour
and a half learning the art of surfing with an experienced surfer,
including a wetsuit and surfboard.

<pic images/san-diego-bike.ps On a cruiser bike, it's easy to ride
along the beach.>

Angelika was somewhat skeptical, but I signed up right away for the
next day at 11 o'clock. My surf instructor was from Barbados, a
Caribbean island near Puerto Rico, and spoke just like...
<LINK>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ali_G|Ali G" is a character
created and portrayed by British comedian Sacha Baron Cohen. The
character is known for his humorous interviews and satirical take on
various social and cultural topics. If you meant something else by
"Ali G," please provide more context.</LINK>
In the eponymous TV series, a Jamaican English that's hilarious.
After a theoretical introduction to the history of surfing (Hawaiians
invented it) and board knowledge (long boards are easy to paddle and
stable, short ones are only for experts), we headed out to the beach
for dry practice: Lying lengthwise straight on the board, pulling the
arms alternately and close to the board through the imaginary water,
then grabbing the front side edges of the board and jumping into a
squat in one motion. Tried it three times, then it was off into the
water.

<pic images/surf-dryrun.ps First, the dry run with the surf
instructor ...>

The wave god was kind that day, as consistent 1.5-meter waves rolled
in every 30 seconds. I lay on the board, the surf instructor turned
me towards the shore, shouted "Paddle, paddle, paddle!" and I started
paddling.

<pic images/surf-dunk.ps The translation to English is: "... then a
few failed attempts ...>

The wave, which was already breaking, caught the board shortly
afterward, accelerated it surprisingly well, and I first crouched
down and then stood up, riding a few meters on the receding wave.
Angelika hadn't even set up the camera yet. Then there were many
failed attempts with spectacular falls into the water, but after a
while, it worked reliably.

<pic images/surf-on-board.ps ... and after an hour already on the
board!>

With a wetsuit, you can comfortably stay in the ocean in San Diego
(at least in September). Wearing only swim trunks, it takes about 10
minutes to immerse yourself more than halfway, as the cold shock is
quite intense. When you first dive in, it feels like a jolt. Once you
start jumping around in the waves, it's bearable, but after 20
minutes, your legs start to go numb. A wetsuit, on the other hand,
allows only a thin layer of water between the neoprene of the suit
and your skin, which your body can easily warm up. Additionally, the
sun heats up the black suit, allowing you to splash around in
18-degree Celsius water for hours.

<pic images/san-diego-beach-bum.ps The bums on the boardwalk are only
allowed to stay for a few hours before they are shooed away.>

In the summer, temperatures in San Diego remain close to 30 degrees
Celsius well into the night. As is common in cities with pleasant
climates, many homeless people settle in San Diego and hang around
the beach. The authorities, of course, do not like this because too
many homeless people can deter tourists. Therefore, uniformed
officers patrol all day in electric cars and move the homeless along
if about two hours have passed. In San Francisco, parking enforcement
officers draw a chalk line on the tires of parked vehicles to
determine, in areas without parking meters, who has just arrived and
who has already exceeded the maximum parking duration of two hours.
Perhaps the officers moving the homeless use a similar method, but
unfortunately, we haven't figured it out.

@Z: Hawaiianisch

<pic images/lualua.ps Funny street names like "Lualualei" in Hawaii
can be difficult to distinguish.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
As every year, we didn't miss out on our Hawaii vacation in 2010
either. In mid-September, we went to Kailua on the island of Oahu for
a week. Michael, of course, tried to improve his surfing skills,
which he had just learned in San Diego, and practiced tirelessly to
jump onto the board and stay there. We've often mentioned that in
many ways, Hawaii is not very different from the American mainland.
Especially on Oahu, there are, in our opinion, too many of the
ubiquitous chains and so-called "Big Box Stores" like Walmart and
Target, but then we also keep discovering truly unique things.

One of the more obvious typically Hawaiian phenomena is the language.
English and Hawaiian are considered the official languages of the
state. However, it's not the case that Hawaiian is spoken much in
everyday life; only on the privately-owned island of Niihau is
communication exclusively in Hawaiian. On the other islands, Hawaiian
terms constantly flow into English. For "thank you," we always hear
"Mahalo," and for greetings, "Aloha." Almost all place and street
names are also Hawaiian.

Since the Hawaiian language has one of the shortest alphabets in the
world and few phonemes, many things sound the same to us or are so
similar that we often find it difficult to remember place names; not
to mention the fact that there are identical place names on different
islands. Like in German, there are often compound words. One of the
best is: Humuhumunukunukuapua'a, a Hawaiian fish. The pronunciation
is quite simple with knowledge of German. There are 5 vowels (a, e,
i, o, u) and seven consonants (h, k, l, m, n, p, w) and the so-called
'okina. This is not an apostrophe, but it helps with pronunciation.
It indicates where the speaker must pause. The correct spelling of
Hawaii is actually Hawai'i, meaning the speaker stops briefly after
Hawai (ai is pronounced like the German ei in this case) to emphasize
the trailing "i" after a short silent pause. A macron over a vowel
indicates that it is a long vowel.

Hawaiian belongs to the group of Polynesian languages. Until the
arrival of missionaries in Hawaii around 1820, it existed only as a
spoken language. The missionaries then used the Latin alphabet to
write it down. Hawaiian was almost on the brink of extinction, but
interest in preserving the language for future generations is now
increasing. There are language courses again at the university and in
high schools and kindergartens where only Hawaiian is spoken.

@Z: Data protection written in lowercase

<pic images/data-privacy.ps In the USA, they don't take data
protection very seriously.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
The Germans have been having heated discussions lately regarding
Google Street View. The Google cars photograph streets and houses to
upload the photos to the internet, where users can access them
anytime and from anywhere. I must admit that I use Google Street View
constantly and find it extremely practical. Therefore, I found some
reactions somewhat exaggerated. However, critically questioning who
uses which data from public spaces and how is, on the other hand, a
good idea.

I noticed how differently the topic of data protection is handled in
the USA and Germany. Americans are generally considered to be
freedom-loving with a healthy distrust of government interference.
There is no registration law and no national ID card, with the
driver's license effectively taking the place of a German ID card.
One might think that this would lead to data protection being a hot
topic, but we repeatedly experience that no one really thinks about
it.

In doctor's offices, receptionists still ask for our Social Security
Number on the first visit and give us a funny look if we don't
provide it. Meanwhile, misuse of these numbers is rampant, allowing
criminals to impersonate others and cause significant financial harm
("Identity Theft"). Therefore, health insurance companies are no
longer allowed to use these numbers for patient identification, and
thus, doctors don't really need them either.

<pic images/24hf-fit-lite.ps This gym identifies customers in the
evening using fingerprint recognition.>

For some time now, some companies have even been using fingerprints
to identify their customers. I was quite surprised when our fitness
center, "24 Hour Fitness," recently set up small kiosks at the
entrance. A friendly staff member pointed out to me that I would no
longer need to bring my membership card if I participated in their
"Cardless Check-In." It would be completely hassle-free and painless:
After scanning both of my index fingers, I would just need to come up
with a 10-digit code, and then in the future, I would simply place
either my right or left index finger on the scanner, enter the code,
and swiftly walk into the fitness center.

<pic images/24hf-fingerprint.ps Instead of showing his membership
card, the customer presses his index finger into the device and
enters a ten-digit number (Photo: Conny Vlaicu).>

I declined with thanks, as it's already enough for me that I had to
give my fingerprints for the Green Card back then, and every time I
enter the USA, the immigration authorities want my fingerprints
again. The employee at "24-Hour-Fitness" didn't look so friendly
anymore, because the company was installing fingerprint scanners but
simultaneously removing the old barcode scanners that used to read
the membership cards. This means that the "24-Hour-Fitness" employees
now have to manually enter the numbers from the customer cards into
the computer.

<pic images/privacy-fingerprint.ps The translation to English is: "We
do not give our fingerprints to private companies.>

In my opinion, this is a very deliberate tactic by the company to
separate as many customers as possible from their membership cards,
even though, of course, providing fingerprints is voluntary. The
company also assures that it does not store the fingerprints, but as
my computer expert Michael at home always emphasizes, ultimately
everything can be hacked. By the way, the Perlmeister also refuses to
provide his fingerprints to "24 Hour Fitness." And before I receive
angry letters again: I know myself that no one is forcing us to join
this gym. But what I actually wanted to say is: I was very surprised
at how willingly most members provided their fingerprints without
questioning the new method. At least according to my private studies,
two-thirds are already using the new method.

And the ultimate highlight: Recently, I read in the newspaper that
some kindergartens (called "preschools" here) in the city of
Richmond, northeast of San Francisco, are equipping their little ones
with microchips in their T-shirts. The chip provides information on
whether the child is present, where they are in the building, and
whether they have participated in lunch. I'm really glad that this
didn't exist in our times.

@Z: American nonsense cars

<pic images/dodge-charger.ps The bulky-looking rental car of the
Dodge Charger type.>

<em>Michael</em> 
In our private lives, as you know, we drive two Japanese cars of the
"Acura Integra" type: the aging PERLMAN and the newer "Rocket" with
the VTEC shell engine. When it comes to vehicles, I value sporty
acceleration, secure cornering, and stable handling. When we rent a
car, I usually choose the cheapest option, as hardly any car rental
company offers other models, even for a reasonable surcharge, than
those at the lowest level of automotive evolution: the American
brands Chevrolet and Dodge. Chevrolet (or "Chevy" for short) produces
rattling family cars, while Dodge manufactures intimidating-looking
but unfortunately sluggish gas guzzlers. Recently in Hawaii, Alamo
didn't have any cheap cars left and therefore offered us a muscle
car, a Dodge Charger, at no extra cost.

<pic images/dodge-charger-bar.ps Behind the thick beam, a slender
pedestrian could easily hide.>

The robustly designed body is sure to appeal to young Manta drivers,
and indeed, the car quickly pulls away from the traffic lights and
offers quite stable handling at lower speeds. However, when you hit
the gas at 35 mph (50 km/h), nothing happens at first, and if you
floor it, the engine revs up because the automatic transmission needs
to downshift before you can quickly reach 65 mph (100 km/h). And this
is with a 6-cylinder engine with 250 horsepower! I definitely
wouldn't buy it; you'd lose to every soccer mom's minivan on the
freeway.

And what is generally annoying about Dodge cars is the
catastrophically limited visibility from the driver's seat. The hood
of the Charger is so high and long that it's impossible to see the
front end of the vehicle. The left pillar of the front window is a
good 5 cm thick on all Dodge models and obstructs the view when
turning. The rear side window is impossibly small for purely
aesthetic reasons and prevents the driver from checking the blind
spot with a glance over the shoulder when changing lanes. It's no
wonder that Americans drive around in these cars like beginners and
take 5 minutes to park.

<pic images/dodge-charger-left.ps The small rear side window and the
rear C-pillar obstruct the view.>

Recently in Las Vegas, I had booked a Toyota Prius with the car
rental company "Dollar" for an additional fee, just to try out how
this hybrid car drives. In the parking garage, it turned out that
there was no Prius available. To appease my annoyance, the attendant
suggested that they would, of course, refund the difference at the
counter. Alternatively, I could simply choose any other car. Angelika
was already heading to the counter, but I hesitated: "Hmm... what do
they have?" I was assured that I could have any car, including those
in the so-called "Hot Row," where a Mercedes E300, some American
muscle cars, SUVs, and an unassuming Japanese speedster were parked.
Angelika was concerned whether our credit card's partial insurance
would cover the Mercedes, so we pointed to the "Infiniti G37," a
vehicle with a modest 300 horsepower, as it turned out later. That
was quite a car! Rarely have I experienced such a good automatic
transmission, which accelerated smoothly and continuously without the
engine roaring. Without a doubt, another point in the Japan vs. USA
competition, and the Infiniti could very well become our next car.

@Z: The translation of "Selbst ist der Kfz-Mechaniker" to English is
"The car mechanic does it himself.

<pic images/perlman-radiator.ps The technician installs the new
radiator.>

<em>Michael</em> 
Our old second car "PERLMAN" is now 19 years old and, according to
the used car table, is only worth $1,200. When it acted up recently
and I refilled the coolant, it immediately leaked out again. It's a
clear case: a leaky radiator, and replacing it costs around $600 at a
car repair shop in San Francisco.

A look at the website of the
<LINK>http://autozone.com|The translation of "Autoteilefirma
Autozone" to English is "Auto parts company Autozone.</LINK>
..reveals that a new radiator costs only $139 and you can even
download an installation guide with color illustrations there. The
company "Kragen" offers a similar range, but from radio and TV
advertising, I was familiar with the slogan "Get in the Zone -
Autozone!" Additionally, Kragen is somewhat more expensive and
prevalent in large cities, while the nearest Autozone branch is about
20 km south of San Francisco in the town of Millbrae, right next to
the SFO airport. There, I not only bought the radiator but also a
small pan to catch the coolant.

Then, just to be safe, I took a day off because the repair needed to
be completed--I couldn't leave Perly Perlman standing around without
a radiator. Under the light of a camping lamp that illuminated the
engine compartment, I drained the coolant through the outlet valve
into the pan, unscrewed the fan attached to the radiator, and removed
the inlet and outlet coolant hoses. Out came the old radiator, and an
hour later, the new one was screwed in and connected.

<pic images/kragen.ps A branch of the auto parts chain "Kragen".>

The rundown old radiator was taken by the Autozone store the next day
for disposal, free of charge and without complaint, and Perly Perlman
is now running like a young foal again. Unfortunately, such repairs
are only possible with older car models these days. With all the
computer nonsense in the engine compartment of today's models, you
probably need a special device just to measure the oil, which, of
course, only the overpriced workshop of the authorized dealer has
available. And the so-called aftermarket parts, meaning non-original
but compatible replacement parts like my new radiator, which often
have a few extra screws because they fit multiple vehicle types, can
only be manufactured by budget manufacturers if they are not
secretively computerized.

The called some time ago the
<LINK>http://www.righttorepair.org|The translation of
"Bürgerinitiative Right To Repair" to English is "Citizens'
Initiative Right To Repair.</LINK>
.. into action. The computer gimmickry not only deters hobbyists from
repairing their machines but also drives affordable independent auto
repair shops into ruin, as it is not worthwhile for them to acquire
all sorts of specialized tools and software for hundreds of different
vehicle types. The initiative is collecting signatures for a
petition, and on the website, you can send a strongly worded email to
the two Californian senators, Feinstein and Boxer, as well as the
President, with just one click. Obama, help!

@Z: Top product: Hershey's Shell

<pic images/hersheys-shell.ps The chocolate drips fluidly from the
bottle, only to solidify immediately afterwards.>

<em>Michael</em> 
American chocolate is not really my thing; I prefer Milka Noisette
imported from Germany. However, with a new invention, the American
chocolate magnates have now at least surpassed the Germans in one
market segment: Hershey's liquid chocolate, which solidifies after
just a few seconds in the air.

A bit of chocolate sauce from the bottle dripped onto Trader Joe's
"French Vanilla" ice cream, and after a short time, a brittle
chocolate shell envelops the creamy ice cream. It's a delight to poke
around with a spoon, push broken pieces into your mouth, and let them
melt there or crunch on them. Instead of chocolate, there's also a
bottle of peanut butter sauce (brand "Reese") available in stores,
which I have never tried, though.

For this invention, the chocolate researchers at Hershey's actually
deserve the Nobel Prize. The newsletter editorial team is not stingy
and awards the coveted Top Product Trophy to "Hershey's Shell"!

@Z: Mongolian BBQ

<pic images/mongolian-bbq-stove.ps On a huge hotplate, the chefs are
sizzling what the customer has placed on the plate.>

<em>Michael</em> 
Our department at Yahoo was moved six months ago to one of the three
large buildings right next to the Great America amusement park on
Highway 101. This offers the advantage of hearing people on roller
coasters scream while walking from the parking lot to the office, but
it also has the disadvantage that the cafeteria there unfortunately
does not meet my high standards.

<pic images/mongolian-bbq-flyer.ps The Mongolian grill restaurant on
El Camino Real in Santa Clara>

For this reason, small groups often gather during lunch breaks to
drive to nearby restaurants and enjoy regional specialties. A hidden
gem: the Mongolian grill at El Camino 3380. There, you select raw
meat and vegetables from a buffet, place everything on two different
plates, and add a few spoonfuls of various sauces (soy, chili,
garlic, barbecue sauce, and sesame oil). On the wall, there are some
tried-and-true recipes for inexperienced customers, along with the
assurance that the establishment will "make it right" if a customer
turns their ingredients into an inedible mess with an impossible
sauce combination.

At the end of the buffet, there is a huge circular hot plate on a
barrel-like table. Two gentlemen stand opposite each other there,
grab the customers' plates, and each empties a portion onto the hot
plate. As they move in a circular motion, both synchronously around
the plate, they use two 50cm long drumsticks to push the customer's
portion around the edge of the plate in a circle. Then, they grab a
fresh plate from a nearby stack and skillfully transfer the finished
dish from the hot plate onto the plate using the two drumsticks. It
makes your mouth water!

<pic images/mongolian-bbq-story.ps The owners: A couple from Korea,
he a former professor of linguistics.>

The restaurant is run by a Korean professor and his wife, who are in
such good spirits every day that one might think there is no more
fulfilling profession than running a grill restaurant. There are
brochures available where you can read about their life story,
including details about their daughter, who plays some classical
string instrument professionally.

The grilled dish costs about $10 with a drink, and supposedly you can
go back for more as often as you like. By the way, instead of two
plates with ingredients, we always take three right away, and no one
says anything. Once again, the name of the place so you can find it:
El Camino Mongolian BBQ, 3380 El Camino Real, Santa Clara. Bon
appétit from the gourmet zone of California!

The translation of "Angelika & Michael" to English is "Angelika &
Michael," as these are proper names and typically do not change when
translated between languages.

