San Francisco, 12-23-2010

@Z: Christmas 2010

<pic images/xmas-2010.ps Christmas 2010>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Christmas is just around the corner, and it's time for my Christmas
newsletter. This time, I've gathered a few American Christmas
traditions. Despite the diverse mix of people, a high percentage of
the American population celebrates Christmas. However, many celebrate
it in different ways, and the originally religious aspect of the
festival is not always the main focus. Some customs may seem familiar
to you, as the European immigrants of the 19th and 20th centuries
brought their traditions to the New World, blending Scandinavian,
English, Dutch, Italian, Polish, and German customs.

TODO

In the USA, Christmas is celebrated on December 25th. The 25th is
even an official holiday, which is surprising since there are
actually no religious holidays in the USA. On December 25th, almost
all stores, including the large supermarket chain "Safeway," and many
restaurants are actually closed. Only a few industrious immigrants
who do not celebrate Christmas open their small mom-and-pop stores or
restaurants.

The opening of presents takes place on the morning of December 25th,
which seems extremely inconvenient for parents of young children, as
the little ones are, of course, so excited that they wake up far too
early and drag their parents out of bed. I find it somewhat
uncomfortable to unwrap gifts in the morning because, in most
American regions, it is broad daylight at that time, and the lights
on the Christmas tree don't really stand out. However, American
children are told the story of "Santa Claus," who travels across the
country on Christmas Eve in his reindeer-drawn sleigh, climbs down
the chimney into the house while everyone is asleep, and places the
presents under the tree.

Many children also leave cookies and milk on the table for the very
busy man to strengthen him. Santa Claus also fills the fabric boots
("Christmas stockings"), which usually hang on the mantelpiece, with
small gifts and sweets. According to legend, those who were not
well-behaved should expect a piece of coal in their stocking. You can
see that the American "Santa Claus" is derived from the figures of
Saint Nicholas and the Weihnachtsmann. However, "Santa Claus" lives
at the North Pole.

<pic images/xmas-sf-santa.ps The Christmas man in front of a house in
our neighborhood.>

December 26th, on the other hand, is not a holiday in the USA.
December 24th is also considered a normal working day, although many
businesses tend to be more relaxed on this day, and many employees
leave work earlier. This year, we are lucky because December 25th
falls on a Saturday, making December 24th officially a holiday,
allowing us to celebrate Christmas on December 24th without taking a
day off. Even though there is only one holiday for Christmas,
businesses and companies tend to be quieter between Christmas and New
Year. Many people take time off, and some companies, including Yahoo,
have recently started closing their doors to save money at the end of
the year, forcing their employees to take mandatory leave. Schools
also have two weeks of winter break. However, I have to work between
Christmas and New Year.

@Z: Weihnachtsbaum

<pic images/xmas-tree-decorate.ps An American is already decorating
his Christmas tree on December 12th.>

The tradition of decorating a conifer tree and setting it up in the
home, originally from Germany, is also widespread in the USA.
However, the Christmas tree is set up much earlier: many people buy
their tree on the weekend after Thanksgiving (the fourth Thursday in
November); they then immediately decorate it with Christmas ornaments
and string lights and leave it up until after Christmas. I don't know
anyone who has real candles on their tree. The branches of the trees
available for purchase here are also much denser so that the cables
of the electric string lights are not noticeable.

The Christmas trees are also not allowed to shed needles, as they
stay in the homes much longer. Artificial Christmas trees are very
popular because you simply pack them back into the box after
Christmas and take them out again the following year. However, I
won't have such a plastic thing in my house, even though we get dizzy
every time we see how expensive real Christmas trees are in San
Francisco. A tree about 1.80 meters tall now costs almost 80 dollars,
including a water bowl and wooden stand. We are always happy to pay
the slight extra charge for this ingenious construction, as I still
remember the tedious work of properly placing the Christmas tree in
the stand and the fear that it might fall over. The wooden stand
simply consists of two wooden boards about 50 cm long, nailed
crosswise to the bottom of the trunk. If the buyer also wants a
watering bowl for the tree, a plastic bowl is added between the trunk
and the wooden stand.

<pic images/xmas-tree-delancey-st.ps The project "Delancey Street"
sells Christmas trees for a good cause.>

We always buy our Christmas tree, by the way, at the...
<LINK>http://www.delanceystreetfoundation.org|The translation of
"Delancey Street Foundation" to English is "Delancey Street
Foundation." It is a proper noun, so it remains the same in
English.</LINK>
..which offers a small selection for sale on Bryant Street in San
Francisco. This is a non-profit organization that was founded in San
Francisco in 1971. It helps former drug addicts, homeless
individuals, or violent offenders get back on their feet by sending
them through a rehabilitation program that reintegrates them into
society. What is special about the Delancey Street Foundation is that
there are no paid employees; instead, the principle of self-help
prevails. The foundation runs several businesses where the
participants work. However, the money does not go to individuals but
into the community fund. In San Francisco, for example, the
organization operates a restaurant, a moving company, and the
seasonal Christmas tree sale.

But back to our Christmas tree: We always buy ours relatively late,
because we don't decorate the tree until December 24th, and it only
comes into the living room then, as anything else would feel strange
to me. Before that, it has to patiently wait on the balcony for its
appearance.

<pic images/xmas-tree-on-car.ps The Delancey man ties the Christmas
tree with the wooden stand to the car roof using a piece of string.>

Many cities also present a richly decorated Christmas tree in a
central, public square, which usually shines in full splendor for the
first time shortly after Thanksgiving when the lights are turned on
during a festive ceremony. In San Francisco, such a Christmas tree
adorns Union Square, and in New York City, it stands in front of the
Rockefeller Center.

@Z: Weihnachtsdekorationen

<pic images/xmas-21st-street.ps These homeowners on 21st Street
prefer their Christmas decorations to be rather lavish.>

Markets and streets stand deserted, every house quietly illuminated.
Pondering, I walk through the alleys, everything looks so festive."
Eichendorff would also have his quiet joy in the Christmas
decorations in the USA. The houses and apartments not only receive a
Christmas touch inside, but many homeowners do not miss the
opportunity to wrap their houses in strings of lights or transform
their front yards into a Christmas paradise. Especially in the
suburbs, the so-called suburbs, there are unofficial competitions to
see who can decorate their house the most beautifully or display the
most strings of lights. In our neighborhood, Noe Valley, on 21st
Street between Church and Sanchez Street, homeowners Tom and Jerry
transform their house into a Christmas paradise for children (and
adults) every year. A toy train circles around, and under an
approximately 8-meter-high fir tree, which is decorated with huge
ornaments, there are also huge wrapped gifts and various stuffed
animals. To bring the house into the Christmas state, the owners rent
a construction crane every year.

Wreaths made of fir branches, but without candles, also decorate many
houses, often the doors. However, you don't see Advent wreaths; at
least we haven't discovered them among our American acquaintances and
friends, and I always have to explain at length what the four candles
on the wreath are all about when we have American visitors during the
Advent season. On the other hand, everyone here knows the mistletoe,
which hangs in the doorframe. Those who meet under the branch are
allowed to kiss, so it's a kind of hidden spin the bottle.

The translation of the provided text is:

"We are increasingly seeing purchased Advent calendars in American
households. I have a strong suspicion that companies like the
supermarket chain Trader Joe's and Lego are not entirely blameless in
this. Because at 'Trader Joe's' (
<RBLINK>20050925#3</RBLINK>
The chocolate advent calendar costs a mere 99 cents. However, the
chocolate tastes rather awful, and what child can resist the Lego
advent calendar, no matter where they are in the world?

Traditionally, turkey or baked ham is served. However, many families
have their own Christmas dishes. Christmas cookies are extremely
popular and must not be missing from any Christmas celebration. In
terms of drinks, there is eggnog.
<RBLINK>20091208#7</RBLINK>
The phrase translates to: "and are called 'Apple Cider' as a
specialty. The latter refers to unfiltered apple juice, which is
heated and refined with spices as needed.

The exchange of gifts and the sending of Christmas cards (or more
neutrally called "Holiday Cards" here) also hold significant
importance in the USA. The Friday after Thanksgiving (the fourth
Thursday in November) officially opens the Christmas season, at least
in terms of the commercial aspect. Since most employees have the
Friday after Thanksgiving off, many stores entice customers with
super special offers. Many retailers or department stores open their
doors extremely early; four o'clock in the morning is not uncommon.
The name "Black Friday" refers to the fact that the stores, due to
the high sales, return to profitability.

We wish you a reflective Christmas and hope that you will remain
loyal newsletter readers in 2011 as well. If you have an unusual or
particularly nice Christmas tradition, just write to us.

Merry Christmas from the land of Santa Claus.

The translation of "Angelika und Michael" to English is "Angelika and
Michael.

