San Francisco, 09-06-2011

@Z: Vancouver Island

<pic images/st-josef-ma.ps On the north coast of Vancouver Island: St. Joseph Bay near Port Hardy.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
In July, we decided to fly to Vancouver Island for ten days because
many people had already raved about this island in the Pacific Ocean, just a
short ferry ride away from the Canadian metropolis of Vancouver.
It belongs to the Canadian province of
British Columbia, is 460 km long and 100 km wide, and anyone who has
vacationed in Scandinavia will feel right at home on Vancouver
Island. There are archipelagos, forests, mountains, and lakes, and as
a bonus, a fantastic rainforest. You will find long--often
fog-shrouded--sandy beaches and an interesting wildlife, including
various whales that are either resident ("resident whales") or
passing through ("transient whales"). Additionally, the tasty and
world-famous oysters from Fanny Bay come from there.

@Z: From Victoria To Port Hardy

<pic images/vi-turboprop.ps From Vancouver in Canada, a propeller plane takes you to Vancouver Island.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
The northern part of Vancouver Island is considered remote, rugged,
and wet, and a paradise for every hiker and nature lover. We landed
in the south, in Victoria, the largest city on the island, with a
propeller plane from Canadian Vancouver and drove with a rental car
to the northern end, to Port Hardy.

<pic images/vi-tourists.ps Victoria, the tourist hotspot on Vancouver Island.>

<pic images/vi-bc-museum-birds.ps The Museum of British Columbia displays an amazing collection of dead birds.>

On the long drive north, we were amazed by the increasingly dense
forestation, and we saw only a few people. Eventually, we found only
one significant country road and many unpaved paths, mostly used by
logging trucks. We stayed in a wooden cabin, a little outside the
town of Port Hardy.

<pic images/port-hardy-cabin.ps In Port Hardy, we rented a small cabin.>

This is a small, sleepy town with a well-stocked supermarket, some
pubs and restaurants, as well as a few unremarkable hotels and
motels. The town is increasingly reliant on tourism, probably because
the dock for the ferries to Prince Rupert is located right outside
the town's gates, but the timber industry and fishing are still
important sources of income.

<pic images/st-josef-mike.ps Even in remote St. Joseph's Bay, someone has to be up to some nonsense.>

A special treat is the Cape Scott Provincial Park with the beautiful,
secluded St. Joseph's Bay. Getting there is an adventure in itself.
First, we drove for two hours (one way!!!) on unpaved roads that
serve as transport routes for logging trucks. Then we continued on
foot through a rainforest until we arrived at a fog-shrouded,
deserted beach. I wouldn't have been surprised if dinosaurs had come
around the corner.

<pic images/ronning-garden-tree.ps In the middle of the wilderness: Exotic plants like this "Monkey Tree" grow in Bernt Ronning's garden.>

We learned that since time immemorial, people have sought their
fortune in these lonely and inaccessible areas, cut off from the
world. Bernt Ronning, a Norwegian immigrant, for example, built a
cabin in the middle of the rainforest near Cape Scott in 1910, along
the never-completed old wagon route to St. Joseph's Bay, and lived
there until his death in the early 1960s, surviving by fishing and
trapping. He also had the crazy idea of ordering seeds and seedlings
from all over the world and clearing part of the rainforest to let
his plants and flowers thrive. Thus, in his garden in the middle of
the rainforest, non-native plants such as rhododendrons, daffodils,
wild roses, and monkey puzzle trees bloomed. After Bernt Ronning's
death, the rainforest quickly reclaimed the garden until many years
later, when the current owners, Ron and Julia Moe, took it upon
themselves to revive the garden. According to travel guides, Bernt
Ronning cultivated such exotic plants that botanists still have not
managed to identify them all.

@Z: Free-Roaming Bears

<pic images/blackbear-grass.ps A black bear is enjoying itself in the grass, right by the roadside.>

Before we set off for Vancouver Island, we could read in every travel
guide that more bears than people live on Vancouver Island.
Interestingly, only black bears roam the island, while both black and
grizzly bears are found on the Canadian mainland. Despite extensive
research, I couldn't find a satisfactory answer as to why this is the
case. In any case, on the second day on the island, we saw a total of three bears,
all leisurely nibbling on grass by the roadside.

That seems to be a popular activity for black bears. Since we were at
a safe distance and in our car, we were able to take photos at our
leisure. Then another tourist stopped behind us, and to our horror,
she got out of her car and approached the bear within just a few
meters to take a photo with her iPhone. She crept up and gestured for
us to be quiet. We shook our heads in disbelief and drove away.
Approaching a bear and startling it is about the dumbest thing you
can do. Bears usually notice people from a distance and ignore them
because they have a keen sense of smell. However, if you get too
close and they feel threatened, it usually ends badly.

<pic images/vi-blackbear.ps A small black bear is wandering around on a dirt road near the street.>

During our trip, we saw on average one to two bears daily, especially
when we were in the northern part of the island, as the conditions
there are particularly idyllic: forests as far as the eye can see and
hardly any people. Once, we were hiking through dense forest, came to
a clearing, and saw a bear in a meadow, maybe 100 meters away.
Fortunately, there was a creek between us. The most absurd encounter
with a black bear we had was when we were comfortably settled in a
pub in the small town of Telegraph Cove. The town is built on stilts
in the water at the edge of a bay, and wooden walkways connect the
houses. We were sitting inside the pub and saw tourists on the
terrace jump up and grab their cameras. A bear had jumped out of the
water, carrying a fish in its mouth, and was leisurely strolling over
the village's wooden walkways towards the forest. Even the pub staff
seemed surprised and confirmed that this had never happened before.

Residents of Vancouver Island generally live in peaceful
coexistence with their bears. While in Alaska, we always carried a
can of bear spray on the advice of locals (<RBLINK>20060529#8</RBLINK>).
On Vancouver Island, people are simply advised to make noise during
encounters with bears so that the bear knows someone is coming. We
always hiked obediently through the forest with bear bells on our
backpacks, but we met many who did without these softly jingling
safety precautions.

@Z: People Speak German In Tofino

<pic images/tofino-deutsch.ps The Canadian version of "Man spricht deutsh".>

<em>Michael</em> 
On Vancouver Island, we noticed a surprising number of German tourist
families wandering around. It's not quite as bad as in
<LINK>http://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Man_spricht_deutsh|"Man spricht Deutsch"</LINK>,
and the behavior of our compatriots there is not bad; they seem
to be relatively well-educated couples in our somewhat more advanced
age group, who speak English quite passably.

<pic images/tofino-beach.ps Tofino: Fog drifting along the beach>

What brings the average Joe to the Canadian wilderness? Canada itself
is nowhere near as interesting as the USA. Canadian cities are all
ridiculous; a city tour through Munich-Laim offers more highlights.
They look as if they were developed in the 60s under social state
planning. Architectural extravagance or true multiculturalism is
completely lacking, although many Canadians don't see it that way.

<pic images/vi-victoria-apt.ps Victoria, the largest city on Vancouver Island, is full of these typical Canadian residential silos.>

And Canada is insanely expensive; even we as American hipster metropolis yuppies
had to add 30% on San Francisco prices. Who in Germany has that many euros to throw around?
Probably German civil servant teachers, who not only have endless
vacations but also earn crazy salaries. The owner of the log cabin we
rented for a few days confirmed that about 65% of her
guests came from Germany (East or West, we asked, but she didn't
know), and all of them wanted to see the bears.

<pic images/tofino-surfers.ps Due to the cold water, surfers in Tofino only surf in full-body wetsuits.>

In Tofino, there are also plenty of beginner surfers in July, against
whom your humble narrator still looks quite sporty. The water
temperature is somewhat more pleasant than in San Francisco, where
without a thick neoprene wetsuit, the cold would immediately stop
your heart. The weather was drizzly but very mild, the waves rather
moderate, but in October, there is supposed to be a decent "swell"
(surfer jargon for thick, regular, well-surfable waves).

@Z: The Canadian Tipping Machine

<pic images/cc-reader.ps Portable credit card reader that allows the server to process payments at the table.>

<em>Michael</em> 
There are some peculiarities to report from the Canadian gastronomy
scene. Apparently, when the guest wants to pay his bill, the server no longer takes the
guest's credit card and disappears to authorize the payment behind the scenes, as is customary in the USA
(<RBLINK>20000801#5</RBLINK>).
Insteat, the guest gets up from their table and approaches the counter on foot to
pay. In fine establishments, the server sometimes brings what I call
a 'tip machine' to the table, where the guest swipes their card and
enters the tip amount in a dialogue that requires pressing an absurd
number of buttons. The small device then noisily prints out a receipt,
which the guest signs with a pen. Fortunately, I have a high school
diploma and only needed about two minutes to give a tip, with a brief
interruption when the server had to reset the machine because I
pressed the wrong button.

The American credit card industry has been resisting the introduction
of chip cards for years in order to delay the costly upgrade of card
readers. In the USA, people still pay with magnetic stripe cards, but
Canada seems to prefer the security aspects of chip cards and looks
incredulously at the outdated cards of American tourists.

At gas stations, Canadians do not accept American credit cards at the
pumps. I was informed twice over the loudspeaker that with "Foreign
Credit Cards," you need to go inside the cashier's booth to pre-pay an
amount with a US credit card.
If you fill up less, the gas station will only charge you for the
fuel you actually pumped, not the amount previously authorized by
signature on the receipt.

@Z: Canadian Lumberjacks

<pic images/lumber-truck-sign.ps Caution is advised regarding long timber transporters.>

<em>Michael</em> 
The more uninhabited areas of Vancouver Island are work areas for lumberjacks
-- rough types who, still in their work gear, head to the village
pub in the evenings and, as it seemed to me, havn't seen the inside
of a dentist's office in a long time. In a dive bar on the edge of
nowhere, we once had a very good dinner, and when I went to the
counter to settle the bill, as is customary in Canada, a lumberjack
was paying his tab before me. The visibly tipsy man also received two
pallets of Budweiser beer cans and two large bags of ice cubes, paid
about $150, and even asked the waitress if he could take her out to
dinner, which she briefly considered but then politely declined.
Let's hope he only had a short drive home!

<pic images/logger-stump.ps Tree stump in a cleared forest area.>

Lumberjacks often stay overnight in cabins in the forest during the
week because access roads to the logging sites are unpaved and
riddled with potholes. Some workers drive an hour into the forest
every day with four-wheel-drive pickup trucks and back out again in
the evening, but they have to buy the thickest tires available and
always carry two spare tires with them. This is because when driving
at 60 km/h over a bumpy road, sharp stones can sometimes cut the
tire rubber.

<pic images/log-truck.ps Quickly to the side, the long timber truck is coming!>

Once we were driving on an access road, and from a distance, we saw
an oncoming, fully loaded logging truck. Fortunately, I quickly found
a space to pull to the side, stopped, and we ducked our heads. Logging trucks
carry about 100 tons of wood per load, are almost twice as wide as a
normal vehicle when loaded, and travel quite leisurely at about 30
km/h over the bumpy roads in the forest. A few wooden bridges over
small streams were actually constructed to sustain this enormous load.

<pic images/logger-load.ps A special forklift lifts tons of tree trunks.>

The truck took up almost the entire width of the road, it was moving
very slowly (about 25 km/h), and we were told that the drivers use CB
radio to warn each other about tourists and to be considerate. Our
lumberjack even waved!

<pic images/logger-float.ps A small tugboat maneuvers the logs in the water.>

The tree trunks are cut down with chainsaws and transported by trucks on
forest roads to a collection point, where they are thrown into the
water and towed by tugboats to the next processing location.

@Z: Kayak Tour In The Broken Islands

<pic images/kayak-mike.ps Probably one of the best kayakers in the world in pursuit of the gold medal.>

<em>Michael</em> 
To explore wildlife and plant life of the so-called "Broken
Islands" in the bay south of Tofino, we booked a guided full-day
kayak tour. Early in the morning at eight, we took a small shuttle
boat with kayaks strapped on to the group of islands, where we packed
provisions into the kayaks on a sandy beach, put on our gear, and
started paddling.

<pic images/boat-socks.ps Angelika on the kayak feeder boat.>

I sat in the back of the kayak, where you wield the double oar with your hands and
control the rudder with your feet. From 10 in the morning until late
in the afternoon, we traveled from island to island, sometimes in
light drizzle and, when a bit of wind picked up for half an hour,
through quite challenging waves.

<pic images/kayak-setup.ps The kayak guide helps Angelika with putting on the gear.>

In total, there were three boats; besides us, there was another
couple from Portland in a double kayak, and the kayak guide was in
his own kayak. The other participants were whitewater kayakers, and
we really had to put in a lot of effort to keep up. I even had a big
blister on my thumb by the evening! They supposedly call them "kayak
blisters," and the kayak guide had thick calluses in the same spot.

<pic images/kayak-tour.ps Intrepid newsletter reporters paddling between the "Broken Islands">

One time, a heavy motorboat sped through the bay and created a single
approximately 1-meter high, leisurely wave, which I called a
"tsunami," that slowly approached the kayak. We paddled quickly to
turn the boat in the same direction. Fortunately, the kayak guide had
warned us about this beforehand; otherwise, we might have taken a
cold bath. The kayak guide said it supposedly happens about twice a
year, and he always has to pull people out because tourists aren't trained to
master the Eskimo roll.

<pic images/starfish.ps The kayak guide brought two starfish into the boat.>

The amazing kayak guide, a globetrotter who had spent a long time in
New Zealand, told stories for hours during the trip and explained
every tree and every bush. We saw various animals, an eagle, a seal,
a few starfish, but due to the bad weather, spectacular sightings
were absent.

<pic images/humpback-whale.ps A humpback whale is diving deep.>

We learned that
during a tour a few weeks earlier, a humpback whale had come too
close to a kayak, and the kayak tourists had nearly capsized and
fallen into the water out of fright. On the way back home in the
shuttle boat, we did see some whales splashing around, including a
so-called "humpback whale" and a gray whale, which we photographed
routinely.

@Z: Teenagers and Alcohol

<pic images/alk-chug.ps The young man gulps down the hard-to-access alcohol greedily, like a camel dying of thirst in the desert.>

<em>Michael</em> 
We are back in San Francisco! One of the most absurd laws in the USA
prohibits young adults under the age of 21 from consuming alcohol.
Just imagine: a twenty-year-old adult can buy a house, join the army,
or purchase a weapon, but cannot buy a beer at the supermarket.
However, like all absurd laws, it is constantly circumvented.

TODO

When I was traveling in America a good twenty years ago, my study
buddy Huber and I arrived in a small town where Huber knew an
exchange student. As far as I can remember, this connection opened up
some cheap accommodation options for us, so we went there. Hardly had
the first handshakes of greeting been exchanged when our contact
person, in a conspiratorial voice, presented a request: Could we
quickly drive by the gas station with our car and buy some beer?

<pic images/alk-liquor-store.ps The owner of the liquor store
carefully checks the customer's driver's license before selling
alcohol. Photo: flickr[Court Kizer|jellohead/4856197748]>

I was just 21 at the time and was handed a beer without any issues at
the drive-through, which our acquaintance eagerly opened and gulped
down like a camel dying of thirst in the desert as soon as we left
the liquor store. Huber and I looked at each other questioningly, but
then we were told that the sale of alcohol to people under 21 is not
allowed in the USA, and young adults go to great lengths to get it
anyway.

Conversely, adults are prohibited from providing access to alcohol to
those under 21, and some overly zealous law enforcement officers even
send teenage decoys into the local corner store to see if they are
sold alcohol there. If the store owner does not ask to see a driver's
license to verify age, they receive a citation and a hefty fine. In
the case of a repeat offense, their license to sell alcohol is
revoked.

<pic images/alk-liquor-store-customer.ps Due to strict laws, sellers
of alcoholic beverages must ask for identification from anyone who
looks younger than 35. Photo: flickr[Mike
Fischer|mikefischer/4091316208]>

Recently, as usual on hot weekends, we were hanging out at the beach
in Pacifica and settled down next to a group of people who looked
about 18 years old. They were clearly having fun taking turns
drinking from a two-liter soda bottle filled with a suspiciously
clear, non-carbonated beverage. Judging by the behavior of the young
people, it was most likely vodka that had been transferred into a
disguise bottle beforehand.

<pic images/alk-perm.ps (#9) The neighbors are questioned when a
store that sells alcoholic beverages opens.>

If a store selling alcoholic beverages or a bar with a liquor license
opens in a neighborhood, the "Department of Alcoholic Beverage
Control" sends forms to all neighbors within a radius of 500 feet
(180 meters). Illustration (#9) shows the notice that landed in our
mailbox when the owner of the wine shop around the corner changed,
and the new owner apparently needed a renewed license to sell
alcoholic beverages. The text states that one can protest against the
store, and to do so, one must request another form, specifically
ABC-510-A, on which one can present their concerns about the wine
shop to the venerable control board. Of course, we have nothing
against it; we would even fill out an extra form so that the good man
can sell his wine.

The moral of the story? Just like in the times of
<LINK>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prohibition#Prohibition_in_the_Uni
ted_States|Prohibition</LINK>
From 1919, when the production, distribution, and consumption of
alcoholic beverages were banned throughout America, the state became
embroiled in a battle it could not win. Instead of educating young
adults on the responsible use of intoxicants, it labeled them as
criminals who violated absurd laws as a national pastime. As is
known, the government finally relented with the prohibition in 1933.
<LINK>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Twenty-first_Amendment_to_the_Unit
ed_States_Constitution|The Twenty-First Amendment to the
Constitution</LINK>
The phrase translates to: "finally approved free access to alcoholic
beverages -- after 14 years of state alcohol prohibition, during
which the black market flourished and gangsters like Al Capone took
over the lucrative distribution business.

@Z: Write Again: American Postal Service on the Verge of Collapse

<pic images/usps-mail-man.ps Due to the dire financial situation of
the American postal service, the mail carrier will probably no longer
deliver on Saturdays.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
After members of Congress have just managed to save the USA from
bankruptcy and raise the debt ceiling following an embarrassing
mudslinging battle, the next piece of bad news comes from the
American Postal Service: If Congress does not intervene, the Postal
Service faces insolvency in a few months.

The structural problems at the United States Postal Service have been
known for a long time. Above all, the internet is causing significant
challenges, as people send emails instead of letters and pay their
bills online. After the very interesting...
<LINK>http://www.nytimes.com/2011/09/05/business/in-internet-age-post
al-service-struggles-to-stay-solvent-and-relevant.html|Article about
the impending bankruptcy of the American postal service</LINK>
In the New York Times, it is reported that the postal service
delivers 22% fewer items than it did five years ago. However, it
still managed 167 billion deliveries in this fiscal year. The
stagnant economy is also not helping the postal service reduce its
mountain of debt. As my favorite postal worker at the post office in
Noe Valley confirmed, small and medium-sized businesses are sending
far fewer items due to the poor economic situation.

<pic images/usps-car.ps The American mail carrier throws the mail
from the car into the mailbox.>

The American postal service is an independent yet still government
institution. By law, it is required to deliver mail comprehensively,
meaning it must transport mail even to the most remote corners of the
USA. In doing so, a standard letter costs 44 cents, regardless of
whether I send it just around the corner or to an address in Hawaii.

Furthermore, she is generally only allowed to adjust the postage
rates in line with the inflation rate. The postal employees have a
status almost similar to that of civil servants, and many cannot be
dismissed. To implement fundamental changes, the Postmaster General
must seek permission from Congress. For example, only Congress could
lift the job protection and allow for dismissals, or decide that mail
is no longer delivered on Saturdays. By the way, this would be a
severe blow for Michael, as he can hardly wait to run to the mailbox
and already experiences withdrawal symptoms on Sundays or public
holidays.

By the way, it's not my fault that the postal service is struggling.
I send so many packages and letters, mostly to Germany, that I'm
known at our post office like a colorful dog and often receive
sympathetic looks around Christmas time. I also belong to the
sentimental type of person who prefers a handwritten birthday card
over a birthday email.

Greetings from the financially stricken country:

The translation of "Angelika & Michael" to English is "Angelika &
Michael," as these are proper names and typically do not change when
translated between languages.

