San Francisco, 12-23-2011

@Z: Christmas 2011

<pic images/w2011.ps Christmas card 2011>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Our Christmas tree is patiently waiting on the balcony for its big
appearance. A sure sign that December 24th is approaching.
Unfortunately, work took over a bit this year, so there was only time
for five newsletters. We promise to do better in 2012.

The defining theme in 2011 was the protest movements: from the
"Wutbürger" (angry citizens) who opposed the Stuttgart train
station, to the Occupy Wall Street movement that began in New York
City, to the so-called Arab Spring. The American "TIME" magazine also
chose the anonymous protester as the Person of the Year. Since 1927,
the magazine has followed the tradition of dedicating the cover story
to the person or group of people who, in the editors' opinion, most
influenced the year. Pope John Paul II, Bill Clinton, Amazon founder
Jeffrey Bezos, as well as controversial figures like Stalin or
Khomeini, have already made it to the cover.

A movement of a somewhat different kind can be found in the group of
American <LINK>http://patrioticmillionaires.org|Patriotic Millionaires for Fiscal Strength</LINK>,
who kindly request to be
allowed to pay more taxes. They are trying to persuade politicians in
Congress to impose fairer tax rates on the super-rich, including
themselves.

Yes, you read that correctly, they consider their tax rates to be too
low. This is because most wealthy individuals derive a significant
portion of their wealth from securities and similar investments,
resulting in many paying only 15% instead of 35% tax on dividends and
15% instead of 20% on capital gains, following the tax reform
implemented by Bush at the time. Bush also reduced the top income tax
rate from 39.6% to 35%. Warren Buffett, one of the richest men in the
USA, who has long advocated for higher taxes for the wealthy, has
already stated that his secretary pays a higher tax rate than he
does.

Buffett is a vehement advocate of the inheritance tax, as the
Republican Party repeatedly makes attempts to abolish it entirely.
Buffett also considers it a myth that higher tax rates prevent people
like him from investing or creating jobs. The standard argument of
Republicans is that low taxes stimulate the economy and high
taxes slow it down. However, this argument cannot necessarily be
supported by facts, as today's American tax rates are at a historic
low, and yet the economy is recovering only very slowly, while it
boomed under Bill Clinton with higher tax rates.

Malicious tongues accuse the group of patriotic millionaires of not
being prevented from paying more taxes to the tax office. However, in
their opinion, sending a one-time check to the tax office does not
solve the problem. It remains exciting to see what influence the
millionaires of the movement will ultimately have.

Christmas greetings from the land of diverse ideas!

Angelika und Michael
