San Francisco, 11-03-2012

@Z: Presidential Elections

<pic images/election-button.ps Sticker for the presidential elections in 2012 Photo: flickr[League of Women Voters of California|lwvc/6306132607/]>

<em>Angelika</em>
Upcoming November 6th is the big day, when we'll have
elections from which a new President will emerge. Undoubtedly, by now you've
heard that this final leg of the race is between the republican candidate Mitt
Romney and the incumbent President, democrat Barack Obama. We've been following
along the election campaigns for months and months now. Highlights in October
were the public debates, a total of three between Mitt Romney and Barack Obama
and another one between the two potential future vice Presidents, Joe Biden und
Paul Ryan.

Televised debates follow a strict format. The first exchange between Obama and 
Romney focused on domestic policy and happened at the University of Denver
in Colorado, moderated by journalist Jim Lehrer of PBS, one of the last
"public" TV stations. The debate went on for a total of six segments,
each about 15 minutes long. Jim Lehrer openened each one with one of
his questions, and each candidate had the opportunity to address it
for a total of two minutes. All the potential topics, but not Lehrer's
questions in particular, were published up front, so that both politicians
could prepare their responses.

<pic images/obama-bumper.ps Campaign bumper stickers seen on a parked car in San Francisco.>

The second presidential debate happened in the state of New York, at
Hostra University of Hempstead, and it resembled at public hearing. A group
of 82 preselected voters had the opportunity to quiz the candidates 
Mitt Romney and Barack Obama. The questions were previously determined
and known to the television station CNN, but not to the candidates. Again,
both polititians had two minutes to address each question with the audience, 
and then another minute for a followup discussion.
The third and final debate between Romney and Obama revolved around American
foreign policy. The setting was identical with the first debate, except
this time moderated by CBS reporter Bob Schieffer. It happened at
Lynn University in Boca Raton, Florida. Vice presidents Ryan and Biden,
on the other hand, argued about domestic and foreign policy at Centre
College in Danville, Kentucky.

<pic images/obama-window.ps Some Obama posters in a window of someone's San Francisco home.>

I've watched all the debates and have to say that they were somewhat 
disappointing. Obama and Romney kept reiterating the same arguments 
regarding the economic situation, taxes, tax breaks for the middle class,
and Obamacare. Even when the topic changed to foreign policy, both 
steered the discussion back to the economic situation in the U.S. and
the job market.

None of the topics was really being discussed thoroughly, 
and many issues were not even
brought up in the first place, like climate change or the Euro crisis.
It's safe to say that these debates have turned into promotional 
events, dominated by the most talented topic peddlers. Mitt Romney seems 
to apply marketing and sales tactics in his election campaign and is
willing to offer anything the voters desire. In the primary elections,
he was posing as a dogmatist stickler to draw the conservative
party base onto his side, and now he's switched to get the more liberal 
voters on board, because he realized that he can't possibly 
win the election without them.

The debate about foreign politics then revealed that there's hardly
any difference between Romney and Obama. It was surprising to see that
Romney was quite eloquent, while Obama looked tired and passive, which
he then overcompensated for in the second debate, where he appeared 
almost too aggressive. Obama is no longer pushing grand ideas, and it's
quite evident that he's frustrated about not being able to
change Washington and now having to play along in order to accomplish 
anything at all.

The most interesting part started when they accepted questions from
voters. The audience asked Romney what distinguished him from Bush and
wanted to know what Obama had accomplished in terms of stricter control 
of specific types of firearms. The debate between Ryan and Biden was
quite entertaining. Biden is known for speaking his mind regardless of
what his advisers tell him. He was blatantly rolling his eyes while 
listening to some of Ryan's statements, or interjected with comments like
"that's a bizarre statement".

<pic images/ryan-romney.ps Republican presidential candidates, Mitt Romney and Paul Ryan. Foto: flickr[Mark Mathosian|markgregory/7768737568/]>

In any case, according to surveys, Romney and Obama will be running
neck-to-neck, and neither side has enthusiastic supporters. Many
democrats are disappointed by Obama, mainly because he abandoned many of 
his 2008 election promises, like closing Guantanamo Bay or initiating an
overhaul to immigration law. We think he lost face
in how he handled the Osama Bin Laden killing, ignoring international law,
but we would still vote for him, because he delivered Obamacare, which
Romney threatens to roll back. But, just as a reminder, as green card holders,
we're not eligible to vote, although we'd be allowed to make donations 
benefiting political parties.

@Z: Super PACs

<pic images/obama-superpac.ps "Priorities USA Action" is Obama's Super PAC website>

<em>Angelika</em>
If you've read Michael's treatise on PACs (Political Action 
Committees, <RBLINK>20110624#3</RBLINK>), you're probably wondering
what these "Super PACs" are about that are all over the news these days.
What's going on there?

Usually, a PAC is a group of people pooling their donations as well as
solicitating new donations to support a candidate in order to help change
course in a political election. By law, political contributions by
an individual are limited to $2500 per candidate. A traditonal PAC, on
the other hand, may donate up to $5000 to a committee supporting a candidate
(<LINK>http://www.fec.gov/pages/brochures/contriblimits.shtml|Political contribution limits</LINK>).

For this reason, until the year 2010, no interest group run by companies,
associations or unions could donate unlimited amounts to politicians or
political parties. A recent decision by the United States Supreme Court, 
however, put an end to this. In the case 
"Citizen United vs. Federal Election Commission", the judges ruled that 
according to the constitutional right of freedom of expression, groups
and associations may donate unlimited amounts to political causes.

It all started with a "documentary" featuring Hillary Clinton during the
last election campaign in 2008. The conservative organization
"United Citizen" produced and financed the movie "Hillary -- The Movie",
in which they presented the New York senator as a liberal political threat. 
The movie
was about to air shortly before the 2008 primaries, but then got pulled
by officials, allegedly because it conflicted with the
"McCain Feingold Act" of 2002 regulating contributions to political campaigns.
Alas, United Citizen proceeded to the Supreme Court and won there, 
with the majority of judges arguing that financing and distributing 
a movie is a form of exercising one's freedom of speech rights.

In another court case, "SpeechNow.org vs. Federal Election Commission",
a federal appeals court ruled that PACs are allowed to 
accept unlimited contributions by individuals, groups, or associations, 
if they don't directly forward the proceeds to 
candidates or political parties. As
an additional requirement, PACs aren't allowed to align their campaigns
with the candidates'. That's how the Super PACs came into existence.

Funds donated to Super PACs usually go into producing 
election campaign spots for their favorite candidates and publicizing 
them across various media. In the ongoing election campaign, Super PACs
mainly purchased air time on TV stations in the so-called "swing states".

<pic images/obama.ps There's not many election campaign posters anywhere in California, because it's not a swing state.>

Swing states are states without an established record of voting 
for republican or democratic candidates. 
They are crucial in elections, and their outcome
can tip the scale, as in most states all electoral delegates votes go to 
the winner ("winner takes all"). In a tight race, like the one we have this
year, swing states can make or break the election for a candidate. Florida
and Ohio are good examples. On the other hand, California, despite 
its huge number of electoral delegates, won't have much impact, as it's
been democratic for ages, and it's safe to assume that Obama has
already won it.

But back to the Super PACs: Romney gets support from
<LINK>http://restoreourfuture.com|Restore our Future</LINK> and
<LINK>http://www.americancrossroads.org|American Crossroads</LINK>;
while Obama benefits from
<LINK>http://www.prioritiesusaaction.org|Priorities USA Action</LINK> and
<LINK>http://www.americanbridgepac.org|American Bridge 21st Century</LINK>.
Whoever will win this election, one thing has already been established by 
now: it's been one of the most expensive election
campaigns in history. Each candidate's campaign will receive about a billion
dollars. Casino owner and billionaire Sheldon Adelson alone donated
10 million dollars to Super PAC "Restore our Future", to help Romney
win. Money talks.

@Z: Creating German "Spezi" in the U.S.

<pic images/spezi.ps If you want German "Spezi" in the U.S., here's my recipe.>

<em>Michael</em>
In Germany, "Spezi" is a popular designated driver drink, but it's nowhere
to be found on supermarked shelves within the U.S., and neither are
similar German products like "Mezzo-Mix". By accident, I recently found
a combination of American ingredients that create an astonishingly 
great tasting interpretation: Ice cubes, a slice of organic lemon including
skin, 4/5 of Coke Zero and 1/5 of American regular Fanta.

Fanta in the U.S. is quite different from the Fanta sold in Europe.
It contains loads of unreal bright orange dye, and tastes a lot
sweeter due to the added corn syrup which is 
heavily subsidized by U.S. tax payers.
Careful, it's so sweet, it wouldn't surprise me to see
unsuspecting Europeans go into a serious episode of hyperglycaemia!
Coke Zero, on the other hand, contains a somewhat controversial artificial
sweetener, similar to Diet Coke, but at least Coke Zero tastes almost
like Coke and not like cardboard.

It might sound unlikely that he mixture above actually closely resembles
the tast of "Spezi", but believe me, I've got fine-tuned taste 
buds for this kind of thing. I demand that German restaurants like the
"Suppenküche" in San Francisco quickly put this fabulous drink on their menu!

@Z: American Pharmacies

<pic images/walgreens.ps You can find the pharmacy chain Walgreens all over the U.S.>

<em>Michael</em>
If you're visiting from Europe and receive a prescription from a doctor 
in the U.S., you might be wondering where to pick up the prescribed meds. 
There's hardly any small pharmacy anywhere, but all you need to do is
enter one of these big Walgreens chain stores and walk past all the shelves,
all the way to the end of the center aisle until you arrive at a window 
counter at the back wall.

Looking through 
the hole in the wall, there's a pharmacist on duty. And while you 
might be used to the typical supermarket employee not being very knowledgable
about particular products, except in which aisle they're located, these
pharamacists are educated experts in their domain. You hand them your
prescription and they start rummaging through the jars in the back, 
and if your meds are in stock, you'll receive them only minutes later in
a generic bottle (Figure (#1)). Walgreens pharmacists also know about
risks and side effects of prescriptions and will advise on how to 
ingest certain medications.

<pic images/wgs-aisle.ps Walk through the aisles, until the very end, until you hit a window with a pharmacist behind it.>

You've read that correctly: Generic prescription pills at Walgreens 
don't come in the original manufacturer's packaging with fancy logos. 
Rather, the pharmacist behind the counter will repackage them by
pouring pills from giant glass jars into tiny
transparent plastic cylinder-shaped containers with an orange-yellowish tint
for the individual patient. Then they simply slap on
a Walgreens-branded adhesive label with instructions. This label
has the patient's first and last name printed on it as well, so, 
if you're one of these
people who like to snoop around in their host's medicine cabinets while paying 
a visit to the bathroom at a party, you get a pretty good idea on who
is taking which prescription medicine.

The label also lists the number of allowed refills, which means that if
all pills are used up, there's no need to go back to the doctor and get a new
prescription. If the number of refills is still within the limits stated
on the label, simply take the empty container back to Walgreens, and 
they'll pour more pills into it from their giant jar. To confirm it's really
you receiving the meds, they ask for your address and compare your answer to 
the data about you that is stored in the computer along with the prescription. 
The computer is smart enough to
trigger an alert if the used amount is way off the daily dose, and the 
pharmacist won't allow a premature refill in this case.

<pic images/walgreens-refill.ps (#1) The generic label on medications sold in the U.S. states the number of refills the pharmacist is allowed to perform.>

Insured Patients typically don't pay the full amount for prescription drugs,
but rather a fixed co-pay of a few dollars. Walgreens then gets the 
remaining amount from the health insurer. On some refills, the patient
won't be charged a co-pay.

Doctors sometimes issue prescriptions electronically. The patient states
where they prefer to pick up the meds, and the doctor then uses his
computer to beam the prescription there. The pharmacy then calls
the patient when the meds are ready to be picked up. Walgreen's robo dialers 
even call again a few days later to check in on the patient,
and a computer voice asks if the medication is working as expected.

@Z: Top Product: The Israeli Gas Mask

<pic images/gm-bath.ps Michael is cleaning the sink with an anti-fungicide and is wearing an Israeli gas mask for protection.>

<em>Michael</em>
We're just about 2.5 miles from the Pacific Ocean, and you can tell 
the proximity by the high air humidity in our household. 
Salt quickly starts clotting 
in the shaker, and if bathroom tiles aren't being 
scrubbed down on a regular basis, ugly black mold quickly starts to 
accumulate.
This plague needs to be tackled every couple of months with a cleaning
solution from hell called "Tilex Mildew Root Penetrator". Pump a few
times with the spray bottle, and work in the foam with a brush. Let
it soak for 5 minutes and watch the tile grout turn white again.
Downside is that the solution contains bleach, so you better keep it
away from colored fabrics (siehe <RBLINK>20100509#1</RBLINK>), and it
reeks of chlorine like there's no tomorrow.

<pic images/gm-order.ps Amazon carries the gas mask for only 20 Dollars.>

This violent stench seems to be downright unhealthy, as every time
I was exposed to it, I seemed to develop a raging headache. First, I tried
to combat it with dust masks from the hardware store,
but when that didn't work, I remembered that back in the day when
I was in the German Armed Forces, we had these rubber gasmasks, so I bought
one on Amazon, including a hazardous gas filter. This mask works wonders!

The bad chlorine odor is indeed fully blocked by the filter, and I'm
no longer getting headaches. The mask is only $20 on Amazon, apparently
an Israeli military surplus item. The filter had a Hebrew imprint on it
that I couldn't read. The black rubber upper part is very soft and
comfortable to wear, and it even has a small drinking hose attached,
just in case you get thirsty. Top product!

<pic images/br-bad.ps (#9) Wearing gas masks has become fashionable thanks to the TV series "Breaking Bad". It looks great with a fancy hazmat suit!>

Speaking of gas masks: They're also popular items on Halloween for all
kinds of scary outfits. On October 31st, one of my colleagues at Yahoo 
came to work dressed up as "Walter White". You know, the chemistry 
teacher turned meth cook from the TV series "Breaking Bad" (Figure (#9)),
wearing a yellow hazmat suit and a gas mask. If you haven't seen it,
that's a great show for the entire family, all four seasons highly
recommended!

@Z: American stove burners

<pic images/stove-1.ps (#4) The typical American spiral stove burners.>

<em>Michael</em> 
In German households, you'll mostly find high-end stoves with Ceran cooktops these
days, but in a typical U.S. rental unit, it's not uncommon to see traditional
stove models that still feature old-fashioned burners
(Figure (#4)). They generate heat by running electrical current through
spiral-shaped metal coils, which often turn bright red if the dial is set to
max. They might not be the latest tech, but they offer one unbeatable
advantage: If you make a big mess, e.g. by letting milk spill over, you can
disassemble these burners and clean them separately, no tools required.
The coils come right off and also the underlying metal plate, which prevents 
any spillage from entering the inner parts of the stove, can be removed and scrubbed
clean.

<pic images/stove-2.ps (#2) Coil and drip pan can be pulled out for cleaning.>

Figure (#2) shows how to remove the (hopefully cooled down) coil by pulling it
upwards out of the two-prong electrical socket at an angle, which exposes the 
underlying drip pan (Figure (#3)), which then can also be extracted 
and even run through the dishwasher.

<pic images/stove-3.ps (#3) New drip pans are just a few bucks at the hardware store.>

Let's assume now that hypothetically the drip pans haven't been cleaned in years
and there's a thick layer of charred crusty food pieces stuck on them that no
one will ever be able to scrape off -- don't dispair, you can simply 
buy a new set of four at every hardware store for about 10 Dollars. You'll get
two small and two big drip pans, and their diameter is exactly the same 
on all major stove brands. Even the coils are standard and can be replaced by new 
ones from the hardware store if needed for very little money. That's what I 
call convenience!

@Z: 10 Cents for a Grocery Bag

<pic images/trader-bags-flyer.ps It's real: Starting October, shops charge 10c per paper bag in San Francisco.>

<em>Angelika</em>
On October 1st 2012, San Francisco banned plastic bags at all
store registers. Even before that, since 2007, there's been 
an ordinance in place
to prohibit supermarkets and drug stores from bagging merchandise
in plastic bags, only paper bags are permitted <RBLINK>20070427#1</RBLINK>).
Now, the plastic ban has been expanded to all stores in San Francisco,
and only bakeries and restaurants are exempt until 2013. 
What's more is that stores are required to charge 10c per 
provided paper bag. Customers who don't want to pay for bags need to
bring their own, preferably reusable bags.

As you might know, this process has been well established in Germany since the
1970ies, when supermarkets started charging for plastic bags at the register.
But over there, typically, only grocery stores charge the fee, while 
department stores still hand out bags at no cost. Unlike in San Francisco,
plastic bags haven't vanished yet in Germany, so California is clearly 
ahead in this area.
The 10 Cent fee in San Francisco was introduced in order to discourage 
customers from even getting paper bags at the register. 
And, I've got to say, this has indeed
changed people's behavior since it was introduced, and many are
bringing their own reusable fabric bags to the grocery store now.

You might want to inquire how this new system works with the grocery baggers,
as you know, it's customary in the U.S. that there's extra employees at
the register taking care of stuffing your items into bags. Simply place
the reusable bag you brought onto the conveyor belt along with the merchanize
and the cashier will hand it to the bagger who will then stuff it
with your items. In the meantime, almost 50 cities in California followed
suit with similar but less far reaching regulations. On the other hand,
if we only leave city limits, and drive down to the suburbs of 
South San Francisco, they're still using plastic bags free of charge. 
Reason is that they're part of a different county, San Mateo, which 
apparently was left behind regarding going green.

<pic images/trader-bags-sign.ps Das Kleingedruckte zum neuen Tütengesetz.>

As you might have expected, this didn't go over without legal battles.
The "Save the Plastic Bag Coalition" tried to stop the plastic ban,
but failed. They argued that paper bags aren't necessarily less harmful
to the environment than plastic bags. And, curiously, that San Francisco
is attracting a great number of tourists, who aren't exactly known to
bring reusable bags along with them. The initiative argued that tourists
will receive paper bags which then will end up in the trash when they
leave. So let me reach out to all our beloved tourists: Please bring
your reusable bags with you when you come visit San Francisco, 
or purchase a nice one here and take it home with you as a souvenir!

@Z: The newly-rich are driving my hairdresser away

<pic images/barber-outside.ps (#8) My long-established barber is forced to move because a newly-rich bought the building.>

<em>Michael</em> 
It's been 16 years since we arrived 
here to San Francisco, and I vividly remember
how hard it was to find a skilled barber. Back then, I was working in the
Italian neighborhood of North Beach, and one day 
by accident stumbled into a small
barber shop on Columbus Street. I loved the haircut I got there and have 
been coming back to this shop all this time, even after I got a new job
in Silicon Valley.

Every time I need a haircut, I'm driving from our place in San Francisco
all over town to North Beach, which only professional cab drivers
and myself can manage in 20 minutes. It has always been worthwhile, both
for the haircut and the gossip exchanged. For example, did you know
that famous director Francis Ford Coppola ("The Godfather", 
"Apocalypse Now") owns a restaurant across the street from the barber
and that he once came over to get a haircut? Or one day, a bunch of 
tech nerds from Google stopped by and booked the entire shop for a few
hours to shoot photos for some barber related web product, because
they liked the original look of the barber chairs with their red
upholstery.

<pic images/barber-inside.ps Both Francis Ford Coppola and myself have received haircuts in this chair.>

Unfortunately, a few months ago, a newly-rich person bought the building 
with the barber shop, and my barber who's way over 60
had to find a new location. He found a salon around the corner, where
he rented a chair. I haven't been to the new place yet, but on my next visit,
I'll have the photo in Figure (#8) printed and framed. It shows my barber
standing in front of his old shop waving, and I'll hand it to him as
a present from a loyal customer.

This story illustrates how neighborhoods have been changing recently: 
The old barber shop will probably become another useless realty office.
New money moves in, and originality and taste fall by the wayside.

@Z: Hiring Professionals to Wait in Line

<pic images/apple-store.ps Apple fanboys are lining up at the store to purchase a new product. Foto: flickr[Shane Curcuru|shanecurcuru/2659488120]>

<em>Michael</em> 
I'm sure you've seen reports on TV about people lining up in front of the
Apple store when a new product first goes on sale. They desperately want to
be the first to own it, and when the iPhone 5 came out, they went as
far as camping outside the store overnight!

But it goes without saying that in a country with a functioning service 
economy like the U.S., you don't have to tackle unpleasant chores yourself,
but can pay others to do them for you. That's not limited to hiring
house cleaners, but extends to dog walkers, workers mowing your lawn,
grocery shoppers, or people going to the DMV for you to get 
your paperwork done. In this day and age, these services can be
booked on the Internet, for example on 
<LINK>http://taskrabbit.com|taskrabbit.com</LINK>, where, according to
an <LINK>http://go.bloomberg.com/tech-blog/2012-09-20-waiting-in-line-for-iphone-5-some-are-just-doing-their-jobs/|article on Bloomberg News</LINK>, 
you can even hire professionals to stand in line for you! For a fee of
$55, someone will hold your place in line for up to four hours, and then
switch places with you, so that you can enter the store chipper and
well-rested in the morning to purchase your new mobile phone.

<pic images/task-rabbit.ps Taskrabbit professionals will do unpleasant chores for you for a fee.>

According to Task Rabbit, one of the most often booked services on their
site is for assembling Ikea furniture. For $42, a more or less professional
handyman will bring his own tools to your house and deal with those dreaded
assembly instructions for furniture kits sold at the well-known Scandinavian 
megastore.

@Z: California bans Foie Gras

<pic images/foie-gras.ps Pan-fried Foie Gras, jambo! Foto: flickr[Stuart Spivack|stuart_spivack/432163531/]>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Starting July 1st, California has banned the sale of fattened duck liver. This
culinary delicacy is known as Foie Gras, in the U.S. and France alike.
Fattening the livers of geese and ducks is accomplished by force-feeding,
and animal rights activists consider it cruelty to animals.
The ban passed legislation all the way back in 2004, but for the following 
eight years, a transition and grace period was granted. According
to estimates, up to 400 restaurants had the item on their menus in 
California. We've seen foie gras on many Napa Valley restaurant menus 
and must admit that we've always enjoyed eating it.

Allegedly, most restaurants now comply with the ban. But the law is somewhat
ambiguous, as it only states that foie gras can't be sold, what led a few
chefs to offer it for free. In this way, one restaurant had a 
"brioche" (pastry) on the menu for $21, that came with a free serving
of foie gras. Although the fines are enormous ($1000 per violation per day)
it seems as if the new law is hard to enforce, as the "Department of
Animal Care and Control" in charge of the matter is chronically understaffed.

By the way, California is the only state in the entire U.S. prohibiting the
sale of foie gras. There was a similar effort in Chicago a few years ago,
which failed because the chefs there put up fierce resistance. 
Here in California,
as you might have expected, we now have an ongoing battle between 
gourmets and animal rights activists. Shortly before the ban started, 
some Californian chefs presented eight course menus, each of which
included some form of foie gras. Another example is the restaurant 
"Goos and Gander" in Napa Valley, which offered a foie gras dish
named after the name of the ban legislation: "Senate Bill 1520". 
They took the item off the menu, however, when the press started reporting
on it. Probably there's soon going to be an underground economy, similar
to during prohibition times, when foie gras will only be available in
dark speakeasy restaurants, if patrons know the secret code?

@Z: Speedy Gonzales

<pic images/speedy.ps The controversial cartoon character Speedy Gonzales.>

<em>Michael</em> 
Who's the the fastest mouse in all Mexico? If you're about our age, you
know the answer: 
<LINK>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Speedy_Gonzales|Speedy Gonzales</LINK>.
The carton series ran on German TV during the 70ies of the previous 
century and was greedily absorbed by the editorial team bringing you
these lines. "Arriba, arriba, andalé, andalé!" the mouse kept screaming
in Spanish, which means "Let's go" or "Hurry up", well,
does this ring a bell now? 

The sombrero wearing mouse zoomed through the stories at breakneck speed
and kept outwitting and outlasting the slower cat Sylvester. 

<pic images/speedy-boone.ps The Song "Speedy Gonzales" by Pat Boone.>

TODO

Der Cartoon wurde damals von den Warner Brothers in den USA produziert, 
doch heutzutage distanzieren sich die feinen Herren eher von der 
ehemaligen Erfolgsserie. Man findet sie auf keinem Fernsehkanal in
Nordamerika mehr. Grund dafür ist dass
die Serie in den USA heutzutage als rassistisch gilt, weil sie gängige 
Vorurteile gegenüber Südamerikanern kultiviert.
Der schnelle Speedy spricht mit mexikanischem Akzent, ist faul, jagt
den Weibern nach und seine Freunde sind trinkfreudige Ganoven.

Der Sänger Pat Boone brachte 1962 einen Song namens "Speedy Gonzales"
heraus, der bis auf Platz 6 der Billboard-Charts hochschnellte. Im Text heißt 
es "You better come home Speedy Gonzales, away from tannery row. Stop all of your 
drinking with that floosie named Flo!". Der Sänger fordert Speedy Gonzales
also auf, heimzukehren und aufzuhören, mit einem Flittchen namens "Flo"
alkoholische Getränke zu konsumieren.

Auf Youtube dürfen interessierte Cartoon-Freunde aber noch eine ganze
Reihe dieser Kurzfilme ansehen. Und ironischerweise läuft Speedy Gonzales 
immer noch sehr erfolgreich im Fernsehen in Südamerika.

Grüße aus dem sturmgebeutelten (nur an der Ostküste, nicht bei uns) 
Land im Wahlkampffieber:

Angelika \& Michael
