San Francisco, 12-24-2012

@Z: Christmas 2012

<pic images/xmas-2012.ps Christmas Card 2012>

<em>Angelika</em>
Before we get ready to celebrate Christmas eve this year, I want to make 
sure to send out our traditional Christmas news letter. A lot has
happened in 2012! It has been an election year, and the news outlets have 
switched to other topics in the meantime, but I'd like to revisit the topic
today. Curiously, we're currently snowed in in Incline village near Lake
Tahoe, and thus are experiencing "White Christmas" for the first time 
in many years. Merry Christmas and a successful new year to you all!

Angelika and Michael

<em>Dear Barack Obama,</em>

I would have never imagined to have the opportunity to write you this
letter, as I was fairly convinced you'd not be able to pull off a second
win in the presidential race. It was a very close outcome this time, 
and if people claim the opposite, they're diehard optimists. 
It seemed that everyone
was tired of the process, including yourself, because many items on your 
election agenda from 2008 you either weren't able to or didn't want to
address. Living in the White House seems to change people or at least 
seems to set them apart from real life.

May I suggest that you'll now take on a few topics that you've already 
promised us in 2008? Either way, there's one thing we'll always be thankful
for: 
Introducing a quasi mandatory health insurance was a big accomplishment. 
I'd wager that this will go on record in the history books and looking
back, Americans will rub their eyes in disbelief when they hear that there
once was a time without health insurance being available for everyone.

And since Christmas is the time when wishes are granted, here's a few
for your next term:

1) Close Guantanamo Bay.

TODO

2) Apropos Kuba: Es ist an der Zeit, die Reisebeschränkungen für amerikanische
Staatsbürger und Greencardholder bezüglich Kuba aufzuheben.

3) Erhöhe die Benzinpreise und pumpe das Geld in öffentliche Verkehrsmittel
und umweltfreundliche Technologien.

4) Reformiere die Einwanderungsgesetze. Eine Amnestie für die Heerscharen von
illegalen Einwanderern, die seit Jahrzehnten ohne Papiere in den USA leben und
arbeiten, ist aus rein pragmatischen Gründen schon notwendig.

5) Erhöhe die Steuern und nicht nur für die Reichsten der Reichen.

6) Nutze die Gunst der Stunde und verschärfe endlich die Waffengesetze.

7) Schließe nicht immer nur Kompromisse mit den Republikanern.

Übrigens glauben wir, dass du zur Höchstform auflaufen wirst, wenn du in vier
Jahren endlich dem Weißen Haus den Rücken zukehren kannst und dich nicht mehr
in den Fängen von Beratern und Lobbyisten befindest.
Viel Glück, und wir hoffen, dass du dich über die Weihnachtsfeiertage gut
erholst in Hawaii.

Angelika
