San Francisco, 03-24-2013

@Z: Gun Buybacks

<pic images/gun-buyback.ps Gun Buybacks: Officials buy back guns from remorseful owners.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
After the school shooting in December last year at the "Sandy Hook" 
elementary school in Connecticut, with a death toll of 27, the press, 
including German newspapers, have been reporting about a steep increase in
U.S. gun sales. Everyone suspects that Obama will now finally push for 
stricter gun laws. There's been less coverage, especially internationally,
of so-called gun buyback programs, occasionally run by cities
like San Francisco or Oakland, and reinstated last December because of the
particular incident in Newtown, Connecticut.

<pic images/gun-buyback-dollars.ps Sellers receeive 100 Dollars for each handgun or rifle, and 200 Dollars for assault weapons.>

The idea behind it is rather simple. It's an incentive for citizens to get
rid of their guns and hence reduce the total
number of weapons in circulation. In San Francisco, the police paid up
to \$200 per gun, that's easily earned money. Per person, they accepted a
maximum of three guns, but only for assault weapons, which are illegal
in California anyway, they paid \$200, and \$100 for legal semi-automatic 
handguns and rifles. This way, Oakland and San Francisco combined collected a
total of 600 guns.

It's a fairly unbureaucratic process. No questions are asked 
about how, when, and under what circumstances the guns were obtained, or 
even why someone is in illegal posession of an automatic weapon in California.
The only requirement is that the gun is functional, since it wouldn't
make much sense to take it out of circulation if it can't be used
anymore. These events are organized by local police, usually working
with neigborhood organisations. This time, they required the gun owners
to show a valid driver's license or utility bill to make sure they were
indeed residents turning in grandma's old shotgun and 
exclude gun dealers from nearby counties, trying to get rid of stale inventory.

<pic images/gun-shop.ps In comparison: A new 9mm Beretta handgun is on sale for 369 Dollars.>

In the end, local police ran out of money and had to issue vouchers. 
For the particular event in December, a private citizen donated money to 
cover some expenses, because he wanted to contribute to reducing the 
number of guns
in the Bay Area. In Oakland, the church of St. Benedict offered their
premises for the event. The collected firearms are then destroyed in 
a spectacular fashion for the TV programs by cutting them with 
spark-spewing circular saws. Experts are divided if these programs actually
reduce gun violence, or if it's rather just a symbolic act.

@Z: Parking meters on Sundays

<pic images/parking-meter.ps Instead of feeding the parking meter with coins, drivers can pay by phone with their credit card.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Like many urban areas, San Francisco suffers from notorious
parking problems. We've reported several times already how
many intricate rules drivers must pay attention to: Street cleaning,
residential parking, red, green, blue, and white curb markers, and so
on. Parking at a meter is usually rather expensive. On average, 
the meters demand $2 per hour, but in downtown San Francisco, it's
a whopping $3.50, and in the touristy area around Fisherman's Wharf,
it's $3.00. The new meters are quite advanced and will accept
not only coins for payment. Drivers can pay by credit card, or a
parking card, which can be obtained in $20 or $50 denominations and then
used at the meter, which then deducts the selected amount from the card.
Before 2013, there was no need to feed the meters on Sunday. But starting
January 2013, that's a thing of the past, between noon and 6pm on Sundays,
meters now need to be fed just like during the week, when payments are
required between 9am and 6pm. Since drivers can't leave their cars in the
same spot between Saturday evening through Monday morning anymore, 
as it was common practice in our neighborhood Noe Valley,
more temporary parking will be available during that time. But of course
the city coffers will also benefit from the additional influx of money.

In general, San Francisco has been 
sporting innovative parking and fee collection 
ideas lately. A pilot project named "SFPark" changes the current parking fee 
dynamically,
depending on the number of available parking spots. If there is high
demand, the price at the meter rises, nudging drivers towards parking
for shorter durations and then vacating these spots, or park in less expensive
areas in the first place, because they are willing to walk a greater 
distance to save money. The fee displayed at the meters increases in
steps of 25 cents every month (to a maximum of $6 per hour), 
until on average there's at least one free spot per city block. In areas
with plenty of available street parking, the fee at the meter 
decreases accordingly.
Using a smartphone app, drivers can then inquire about the current parking 
situation and what fees are being charged. 
To make this project a reality, the city
would need new parking meters equipped with the technology to receive 
and analyze the data, though. In general, this is not a bad idea, it might lead
to a better utilization of available parking space by distributing 
parked cars around the city more evenly. Maybe some drivers will even
opt for public transportation instead of parking at a meter if the
former is more economical?
On the other hand, the new system won't help residents of the
affected neighborhoods at all, because they need parking spots that
allow parking for more than two hours. 

@Z: Golden Gate Bridge Toll Collection: The End Of an Era

<pic images/gg-toll-plaza.ps The toll booths at the south end of the Golden Gate Bridge will soon operate without human toll collectors. Foto: flickr[somma1977|thomas-sommeregger/4021855745]>

<em>Angelika</em> 
If you have ever crossed Golden Gate Bridge by car, you know that the bridge
maintainers won't collect any fees if you are leaving the city, but that the 
toll is
a whopping $6 per car when you enter. 
Until recently, drivers could pay the
bridge toll in cash at one of the toll booths at the end of every lane,
by stopping, handing the money through the car window to a friendly collector 
and then drive off. I fondly remember the times when we were traveling to
San Francisco as tourists and stuck out like a sore thumb because we
asked the bridge toll collectors for a receipt, which we planned to 
add to our photo album. At the end of March, the days of the bridge toll
collectors are counted. Going forward, you'll only be able to pay
electronically and that doesn't require any humans manning the toll booths
anymore.

Golden Gate Bridge has been supporting the so-called Fastrak system since 2000.
Michael has explained it in a previous edition already
(<RBLINK>20060421#1</RBLINK>). It works with a small transponder box in 
your car that communicates with the toll plaza while you're driving and 
deducts the bridge toll from a credit card funded account.
On Golden Gate Bridge, the Fastrak toll is only $5. The transponder works
on all bridges in the Bay Area (including the Bay Bridge) 
and even beyond, all over California. It is most useful for residents, who
often cross the local bridges. For example, I'm driving from San Francisco
to Oakland and back many times per week, and crossing Bay Bridge without
Fastrak would be a real nightmare. When taking one of the designated
Fastrak lanes, there's usually not much delay or slow driving, while
others are waiting for their turn at the toll booth.

<pic images/fastrak.ps The "Fastrak" transponder has been working reliably for quite some time, paying the bridge tolls electronically..>

But what about visitors or people who oppose the Fastrak 
payment system? When cash payments will be no longer
accepted at the end of March, there'll be a way to open an online 
<LINK>http://goldengate.org/tolls/|"license plate account"</LINK>.
Car owners register their license plates online, add a credit card,
and every time when the vehicle crosses the toll plaza on the bridge, 
the card gets charged with the correct amount for the bridge toll. 
No transponder needs to be carried along in the car for this, since the 
collection system takes a snapshot of the car's license plate while it
is driving by. Also, one-time payments will be accepted, either 30 days 
before or 48 hours after crossing the Golden Gate Bridge, with an
online payment system or by phone and credit card.

For visitors, this is very annoying, of course. One more thing to think 
about! If you don't have a credit card, there's a way to pay in cash at
one of many kiosk stations, allegedly soon to be located in super markets and 
gas stations close to the bridge. They look a bit like a subway ticket
vending machine (<LINK>http://www.marinij.com/sanrafael/ci_22701036/golden-gate-bridge-demonstrates-cash-toll-options-all|Cash-Toll-Machine</LINK>). 
If drivers ignore the new rules, they'll get ticketed by mail, because
every car driving by the toll booth gets photographed and the system
sends an invoice to the registered owner. This process is just a last resort,
it isn't really recommended by the bridge operators, but won't cost the
car owner more than paying the toll correctly in the first place.
Until recently, the
Golden Gate Bridge operators have been charging additional penalties for 
non-paying drivers, and that's still the case on all other bridges.

<pic images/gg-toll-plaza-carview.ps Until recently, visitors have been able to pay the bridge toll in cash at the toll booth. Foto: flickr[Jenn Clark|jennconspiracy/2377301338]>
 
Tourists from out of state, who usually drive over Golden Gate
Bridge in a rental car, should inquire at the car rental agency counter
if the rental company offers a bridge toll program. Usually, rental cars
have Fastrak devices built in and the customer decides whether they want
to use it or not. If they decline, they'll have to deal with paying the
bridge tolls on their own. If they just cross the bridge without paying,
the car rental company will receive an invoice issued by the bridge
operators soon after, which rental companies not only promptly 
forward to the renter, but also add a hefty fee on top of.

@Z: Explosion of Parking Ticket Fines

<pic images/ticket.ps (#3) Happy times ten years ago: A parking ticket for 25 Dollars for parking on the sidewalk. Today, the same ticket is 110 Dollars.>

<em>Michael</em>
Over the last couple of years, San Francisco has heavily increased the fines
imposed for illegal parking. As you can see in figure (#3), back in 2002,
I received a parking ticket for $25 when parking our car PERLMAN for an hour
on the sidewalk in front of the house, because there were no parking spots
available at the time.
According to the <LINK>http://bit.ly/WNv0CN|new parking fee table</LINK>
from 2013, for the same infraction the city now assesses a fine of $110!

Other traffic violations carry more severe fines as well: Parking
in a street cleaning zone while the street sweeper is coming through 
now costs $62. Parking at an expired meter? $72! And it gets really 
expensive at bus stops, where the city's traffic squad charges $267. 
It's commonly believed that it's okay to quickly
halt at a bus stop and let a passenger out, but if a police officer takes 
notice and isn't busy chasing gansters, he will relentlessly issue a 
ticket to fill the city coffers.

<pic images/placard.ps Only vehicles equipped with a disabled person placard may be parked in handicap parking spots. Others pay a fine of 966 Dollars.>

And the jackpot is no doubt parking in a parking spot reserved for the
disabled. That's almost a thousand dollars: $966. The same fine amount applies
to people caught in those reserved parking spots with fake or "borrowed" 
placards.
Ironically, placard abuse is rampant in the United States. 
Pay attention 
to what kind of people are occupying the reserved spots, and you'll find 
that they're often astonishingly quick on their feet. A while ago, I pondered
the idea of building a website to expose these douchebags via their license
plates. If I only had more time!

Some time ago, at the beach of Pacifica, we saw a dad with two kids park
a car with a disabled placard in a handicap spot. Minutes later, he hauled
a surfboard 600 feet to the beach, without any visible physical impairment.
I wonder what he was suffering from?

@Z: Private Taxi Cabs in San Francisco

<pic images/pink-moustache-noe.ps A regular car with a pink mustache shuttles cab passengers for a good cause.>

<em>Michael</em> 
If you've ever tried to get a taxi cab in San Francisco after a heavy rain
storm, you'd agree with me that there are deficiencies 
here in this town, just as
if we were worshipping some destructive form of socialism. It's hard
to believe, but in major American cities like New York City, San Francisco,
Boston or Chicago, there's no free market for taxi drivers. Instead, 
these cities impose restrictions on the number of cabs in
operation and hence create artificial bottlenecks on days with high demand.

What's happening is that these cities issue a limited number of
so-called <LINK>http://slate.me/MeJg13|"Medallions"</LINK> 
that no cab can be operated without. Like in a Mafia-controlled operation,
wealthy middlemen are trading these licenses for millions of dollars and
rent them out to taxi drivers on a daily basis. On top of paying the 
daily renting fee for a vehicle, taxi drivers therefore have the additional 
financial burden of having to compensate the medallion owner, before they
even see a single cent of their income during a shift. In New York city,
for example, a driver taking in $300 during a 12 hour shift pays about 
$150 to the taxi cab mogule who rents out the yellow cab with the embedded
medallion.

<pic images/taxi-medallion.ps The license to operate a taxi cab: The Medallion. Foto: flickr[Sugar Sweet Sunshine|daniellerose/1343804825]>

Naturally, the swanky medallion owners defend this midevil bureaucracy 
tooth and nail against all efforts to align it with modern
consumer requirements. Sure, who in their right mind would let go of a 
licence to print money? What's worse, the cab drivers aren't eager to 
introduce a free market either. More cabs lead to more competition and 
hence lower hourly wages. However, it's the customers who get the short 
end of the stick in this game, because they can forget about getting from
point A to B on days with increased demand. Those of you who have ever
tried to get a cab on New Year's Eve, grudgingly have given up at some 
point, only to finally take hopelessly crowded street cars across town,
would most likely agree with me.

<pic images/uber-limo.ps Startup company "Uber" competes with established taxi cab companies by offering better service with limousines.>

For this reason, a while ago, a startup company named 
<LINK>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uber_(company)|"Uber"</LINK>
set out to offer black limousine rides for customers who were willing to pay
roughly twice the regular cab fare. Their cars are often Lincoln Towncars,
driven by chauffeurs in uniforms. You can't hail them like regular cabs, but
need to page them 
via SMS message or a smart phone app within minutes. On a map, customers 
can watch the limo approaching. When arriving at the destination, customers
make a digital payment via the smart phone, and the tip is included. Customers
can then rate the driver and get an invoice via email. Since no cash is
changes hands, 
Uber drivers feel safe to even to enter the shadier neigborhoods
of San Francisco, where regular cab drivers usually start shaking and stay
out!

Predictably, in almost every city Uber enters, the established taxi cab
overlords raise a legal storm. In May 2012, they
<LINK>http://news.cnet.com/8301-1023_3-57493358-93/uber-boston-promises-to-fight-cease-and-desist-order|shut Uber down in Boston|Uber receives cease and desist order in Boston</LINK> temporarily. Uber obviously walks a fine legal 
line and argues that they're not bound by the taxi restrictions because
they're not operating taxi cabs, but offer a completely different 
transportation experience.

<pic images/lyft-app.ps With the Lyft iPhone app, customers request cars with pink moustaches to pick them up.>

Uber's headquarters are located in San Francisco, where the new service has
been received with great success, but recently a new contender 
has emerged: Private cars with a grotesquely large pink moustache on the
front grill, called "car stache" in short. Behind this new service
hides a
<LINK>http://arstechnica.com/business/2012/09/my-life-as-a-high-tech-part-time-not-quite-taxi-driver/|startup company named "Lyft"</LINK>. Customers
request their rides by smart phone app and pay the driver at the end of the 
ride via the app with a stored credit card. 
The money exchange isn't called "cab fare" for
legal reasons, but a "donation" that the driver "suggests" and is 
about 20% less than the fare for a comparable cab ride.

After drop-off, both driver and customer rate the experience separately via the
app. That way, the customer can reward the driver for driving courteously, 
and conversely the driver acknowledges that the customer's "voluntary" payment 
was considered adequate. Lyft pays new drivers an hourly wage of $18 during
the first couple of weeks. As soon as drivers have established a 
customer base, their income is determined entirely by what they receive
from customers, of which they may keep 80%. It seems that Lyft's workforce
solely consists of young people who want to make a few bucks on the side.
Drivers greet their customers with a so-called "fist-bump", a modern
urban gesture, where two people make a fist with their right hand and
slowly move them together until they gently touch at the knuckles.

@Z: American Holidays

<pic images/july4-fireworks.ps Fireworks on the 4th of July national holiday. Photo: flickr[morganglines|morganm7777777/2205067929]>

<em>Michael</em>
Germans tend to think "how well off we are with our great number of holidays,
the whole world looks upon us with envy!" but that's a common misconception.
While Americans can take far fewer vacation
days than Germans, the number of national holidays is pretty much the
same in both countries.

Before I get into more detail, I need to clarify that there are 
<LINK>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/US_holidays|Federal Holidays</LINK>
in the US, enacted by the United States Congress, but they're not binding
for businesses in the private sector. They're also called
"Banking Holidays", describing holidays only obeyed by banks and other 
slacker shops like public schools and the post office. In the private
sector, businesses pick the most important federal holidays for their
employees, which typically results in two or three fewer days off. In
addition, and in contrast to most parts of Europe, stores often
open for extended hours on major holidays. 
When would the busily working population be able to shop otherwise?

Here are all American holidays in detail: New Year's Day obviously falls
on January 1st and is always a welcome day off work. While parts of
Germany celebrate the religious holiday of Epiphany on January 6th, there's
no such thing in the US. On the third Monday in January, Americans celebrate
the birthday of African-American civil rights leader Martin Luther King 
Jr., who was assassinated in 1968. Celebrating this holiday on a Monday
every day is quite an interesting choice, since the MLK's birthday is on 
January 15th, which falls on a differnt day of the week every year. 
However, in their astonishing pragmatism, Americans celebrate 
the holiday on a Monday each year, to make sure that they get a long weekend
out of it!

President's day on the 2nd Monday in February, also known as
"Washington's Birthday", is celebrated in honor of the first of a long
line of American Presidents. The actual birthday of the man on the backside
of the One Dollar Bill was on February 22nd. Then comes a long stretch
without federal holidays for the working population until way into May, because
Easter and Pentecost, which are big religious holidays in Germany aren't
celebrated here as much and hence the following Mondays are regular working
days. An exception is Good Friday before Easter, when the New
York Stock Exchange is closed, but that's a private enterprise and not
a government-run institution.

<pic images/presidio-cemetery.ps Memorial day honors fallen American soldiers.>

"Memorial Day" on the last Monday in May is to honor fallen American soldiers of
various wars. People with fallen soldiers in the family might pay them
a visit at the local cemetary. July 4th marks Independence Day, when people
ignite child-safe table fireworks while eating Hot Dogs to commemorate
the date when the United States cut themselves loose from British rule. 
The US used to be a British colony whey back when, but when Britain asked 
for taxation without representing Americans in British government, this
got old pretty quickly. The 4th of July holiday is a major deal, and if
it falls on a Thursday in a given year, companies often give Friday off
as well for an extra long weekend. If it's on a Sunday, the Monday after
is off as well. If it's on a Saturday, the Friday leading up to it is a 
holiday as well.

"Labor Day" on the first Monday in September is conceptually similar to the 1st
of May in Germany, except that it's not unions parading the streets with red
flags asking for lofty wage increases. Instead, in the US, you'll see families
driving to a public park in their neighborhood, throwing hamburger patties on
the grill and an egg-shaped leather ball through the air.

<pic images/labor-day-picnic.ps On Labor Day, Americans drive to public parks and fire up the BBQ.>

How "Columbus Day" on the second Monday in October is celebrated depends
on where you live. It is virtually unknown in states like South Dakota or 
Alaska, and in states who do recognize it, only schools, banks and the
post office are closed. It commemorates October 12th, 1492, when Columbus 
anchored his ship and stepped on American soil for the first time. 
November 11th 1918, on the other hand, marks the end of the First World War,
and Americans celebrate "Veteran's Day" on this date. That's another one
of these holidays that hardly any company recognizes, except maybe 
military-friendly defense contractors.

Then, in November, there's the most important holiday of all: Thanksgiving,
originally some kind of harvest celebration, but nowadays a family holiday
where everyone and their dog is travelling home to their family and all
major airports turn into disaster areas. Several generations of an extended
family then sit togther at home, take a minute to reflect on life, and 
family members take turns in proclaiming what they're thankful for. While
this is happening, people consume abnormous amounts of braised turkey with
a lumpy sauce called gravy, drink cheap red wine, and makes resolutions 
on the next day, like going on a diet or get a membership in the local 
fitness club. During the following weeks, there's always reheated turkey 
leftovers for dinner, until finally they can't take it anymore.

<pic images/mall-santa.ps Americans seriously believe that it's Santa Claus who's bringing the Christmas presents and not the Christ Child. Foto: flickr[caribb|caribb/8292022013]>

And then Christmas. American children are disadvantaged compared to their
German friends because they need to wait until the morning hours of December
25th.
Also, they believe that "Santa Claus" brings the presents on a sled hauled
by reindeers, and he's entering people's houses through the chimney. 
There's no "Christ Child" at work here, as German children believe the little
baby somehow teleports the presents under their Christmas trees.
German kids can already play with their presents on Christmas eve (12/24), which
is uneventful in the United States. Usually, it's not even a day off work, but 
the day after, Christmas day, certainly is, and often the day after that as well.
Christmas day is one of the few holidays when many stores are actually closed.
I've learned this the hard way by pulling up to a Safeway grocery store parking
lot and rubbing my eyes in disbelief. In the US, unbelievable! On these days,
people need to resort to small mom and pop shops to get their groceries, 
they're always open and especially on these days.

New Year's Eve is, as in Germany, not an official holiday in the US. All in all,
the working population in the United States is enjoying about 12 or more
holidays a year. And they're never lost because most of them always are
on a business day. In comparison, German holidays differ by state, sometimes
vanish because they fall on a weekend.
To give you an example, the state of Bavaria celebrates about 15 holidays
per year that could potentially fall on a business day. Americans fare quite
well in comparison.
Sure, when it comes to vacation time, they're far behind,
of course. New employees usually start with two weeks per year, which 
is laughable compared to the six weeks that are standard in Germany. But
since I've been at Yahoo for eight years already, I've been enjoying a solid 
five weeks of vacation per year lately, believe it or not!

XXX_NOT_TRANSLATED_YET

@Z: Werkzeugnamen auf Englisch

<pic images/wrench.ps (#5) Was heißt nochmal Schraubenschlüssel auf Englisch?>

<em>Michael</em>
Wie schon häufiger hier ausgeführt taugt das in Deutschland gelehrte 
Schulenglisch höchstens zum Bilden der korrekten Vergangen\-heits\-formen und
anderem Firlefanz. Im amerikanischen Alltag muss der Auswanderer 
vor Ort fast wieder bei Null anfangen. Das liegt vor allem daran, dass 
wichtige Vokabeln fehlen. Besonders im Heimwerkerbereich tritt dies
überdeutlich zutage, ich traue
mich zu wetten, dass ein Abiturient aus Deutschland nicht mal die Hälfte der
Dinge auf Englisch benennen könnte, die in einem Baumarkt verkauft werden.

Was heißt Zange? Bohrmaschine? Türklinke? Türangel? 
Schleifpapier? Kreuzschlitzschaubenzieher? Antworten folgen weiter unten,
damit ihr nicht schummelt.
Der in Abbildung (#5) gezeigte Rollgabelschlüssel heißt auf Englisch
übrigens "adjustable wrench". Für schwerere Arbeiten an Metallrohren dienen
in Deutschland sogenannte "Franzosen" und "Engländer". Diese lassen sich
ebenfalls verstellen, sehen aber eher aus wie ein Hammer, wobei der Engländer
nur auf einer Seite offen ist aber der Franzose auf beiden. Diese
Werkzeuge tragen im Amerikanischen den lustigen Namen "Monkey Wrench".

Das erinnert mich daran, dass mich einmal ein Röntgengerätbediener
am Flughafen von San Francisco fragte, ob ich eine "Ranch" hätte.
Den Zusammenhang zwischen meinem Rucksack und Ackerbau und Viehzucht
konnte ich nicht herstellen und blickte ihn fragend an.
Es stellte sich heraus, dass der Handgepäckkontrolleur auf dem
Scanner einen Gabelschlüssel für Fahrradreparaturen in meinem 
Rucksack gesehen hatte, und das Mitführen von Werkzeug war diese
Woche nach den völlig absurden
Sicherheitsvorkehrungen seiner Behörde gerade nicht erlaubt. 
Der offensichtlich südamerikanische TSA-Angestellte hatte 
"Wrench" gesagt, was habe ich gelacht!

<pic images/cotter-pin.ps (#6) Ein "cotter pin" genannter Metallsplint.>

Und es gibt sogar mechanische Bauteile, 
deren Namen selbst ich mit 16 Jahren USA auf dem Buckel noch
nie gehört habe. Neulich fragte ich einen Arbeitskollegen, ob es normal
sei, dass die Räder meines 
Strandmobils (<RBLINK>20120801#10</RBLINK>)
nur mit Metallsplinten an der Achse
befestigt sind (Abbildung (#6)). Ob das nicht "Pfusch" wäre? 

Gleich zu Anfang stellte sich heraus, dass es auf amerikanisch kein Wort 
für "Pfusch" gibt. Wenn etwas in Amerika halbwegs zusammenhält, ist es 
brauchbar und dann wird kein weiterer Gedanke daran verschwendet. Aber,
wandte ich ein, ob es denn nicht sinnvoller wäre, statt der Metallsplinte
eine Art Schnellverschluss anzubringen, was zwar teurer, aber doch stabiler
und leichter zusammen und wieder auseinanderzunehmen wäre? Kopfschüttelnd
erwiderte mein Kollege: Ein Wort für "Pfusch" gäbe es zwar nicht, aber
eines für Design, das komplizierter als notwendig ist, nämlich: "Dumm".
So ein Scherzbold.

Und dann musste ich doch tatsächlich fragen, wie dieser ge\-schwun\-gene
Metallsplint eigentlich heißt: Cotter Pin. Ein "Cotter" ist nicht nur jemand,
dem ein Gutsherr als Gegenleistung für Dienste freie Logis in einem 
Häuschen auf dem Grundstück ("Cottage") gewährt, sondern auch ein
Keil oder Splint. Hatte ich wirklich noch nie im Leben gehört.

Und hier noch die Antworten auf die oben abgefragten Werk\-zeug\-voka\-beln: 
Pliers (Zange), drill (Bohrmaschine), 
door handle (Türgriff), door hinge (Türangel), sandpaper (Schleifpapier), 
Phillips head (Kreuz\-schlitz\-schrau\-ben\-zie\-her).
"Phillips", das amerikanische Wort für Kreuz\-schlitz\-schrauben\-zieher
schreibt man, anders als den holländischen Elektronikkonzern
"Philips" übrigens mit zwei L, denn der Schraubenzieher ist nach dem 
amerikanischen Geschäftsmann Henry F. Phillips benannt. Hättet ihr's gewusst?

@Z: Jeder will meine Sozialversicherungsnummer

<pic images/cc-application.ps (#1) Beantragt man eine Kreditkarte, muss die Sozialversicherungsnummer auf das Formular.>

<em>Michael</em>
Staatsbürger und Einwanderer identifizieren sich in den USA mittels einer
neunstelligen Zahl im Format XXX-XX-XXXX, 
der sogenannten "Social Security Number" (SSN). 
In Deutschland
bestimmt die "Sozialversicherungsnummer" einen Arbeitnehmer, der irgendwann
mal eine Rente erhält. In den USA ist die SSN eine Art Identifikation für
Staatsbürger und legale Einwanderer. Illegale Einwanderer kaufen sich
gestohlene Nummern oder recyclen Nummern von Verstorbenen, denn ohne diese
Nummer kriegt man kaum einen Fuß auf den Boden in diesem Land: 
Die Bank fragt danach, wenn man
ein Konto eröffnen möchte, die Führerscheinstelle, wenn man eine
Fahrerlaubnis für den jeweiligen Bundesstaat beantragt, und die Arztpraxis
lässt neue Patienten ihre SSN in Formulare einfüllen.
Ruft man in der Telefonzentrale beim Online-Banking an, identifiziert
der freundliche Kundenberater den Anrufer oft über die letzen vier Ziffern
der SSN. Als ich anno 1996 eingewandert bin, wollte sogar der
Supermarkt Costco zur Ausstellung meines Mitgliedsausweises meine
"Social" wissen und ich Depp habe sie damals nichtswissend rausgerückt.

Amerikaner erhalten ihre SSN bei der Geburt vom Staat, für frisch angereiste 
Einwanderer ist die Ausstellung einer SSN ein wichtiger erster Schritt, um
in der neuen Welt Fuß zu fassen (<RBLINK>19970126#3</RBLINK>). Allerdings 
kommen diese Nummern auch öfters abhanden. Führt man seine SSN 
zum Beispiel im Geldbeutel mit sich und irgendein Taschendieb bemächtigt 
sich desselben, kann der
Nichtsnutz die Nummer gewinnbringend im Untergrund an zwielichtige 
Gestalten verscherbeln und wildfremde Personen nehmen kurze Zeit
später die Identität des unbescholtenen Geldbeutelbesitzers an.
Sie nehmen Kredite auf, die sie dann nicht zurückzahlen und treiben allerhand
Schabernack, die der rechtmäßige SSN-Besitzer dann in jahrelanger,
mühevoller Kleinarbeit berichtigen muss, wenn ihm niemand mehr Geld leiht,
weil sein Ruf ruiniert ist und seine Kredithistorie ("Credit Report", 
<RBLINK>20040518#4</RBLINK>) einen böse Beule abbekommen hat.

Im Krankenhaus oder beim Blutabnehmen im Labor identifizieren die Angestellten
die Patienten mit Hilfe des Geburtsdatums. Die Schwester fragt: "What's your
date of birth?" und vergleicht die Antwort mit dem Aufnahmezettel, auf dem
das Geburtsdatum des Patienten steht.
So ist es eher unwahrscheinlich, dass Frau Meier die Medizin von Herrn
Müller eingepumpt kriegt. Ruft man bei einer Kreditkartenfirma an, und
will seinen Kontostand wissen,
fragt das automatische System auch manchmal nach dem Mädchennamen der Mutter,
den man bei der Anmeldung ebenfalls hinterlassen hat. Wird es ganz
kritisch, wie bei einer gestohlen gemeldeten Kreditkarte, identifizieren
die Kartenfirmen den Kunden anhand mehrerer Teilinformationen aus dessen
Kredithistorie. Was war zum Beispiel
der Arbeitgeber, den der Kunde beim allerersten 
Kreditkartenantrag angegeben hatte? Wer über die Jahre oft die Stelle 
gewechselt hat, muss dann oft scharf nachdenken.

Aus Sicherheitsgründen
geizen aufgeweckte Leute mittlerweile mit der Herausgabe der 
Social-Security-Nummer.
Braucht der Supermarkt sie wirklich? Natürlich nicht. Und auf dem 
Anmeldeformular für die Arztpraxis lasse ich das Feld mittlerweile leer
(Abbildung (#2)). Wieso sollte ich einer Sprechstundenhilfe und eventuell
weiteren Angestellten in der Arztpraxis Informationen
zugänglich machen, die diese leicht online verscherbeln und mir damit
das Leben zur Hölle machen könnten?
Die meisten Praxen akzeptieren das Weglassen der Nummer auf dem 
Formular
mittlerweile klaglos, wenn man ihnen eine
Krankenversicherungskarte reicht, auf der eine ID-Nummer aufgedruckt ist, die
den versichterten Patienten identifiziert und nicht einen Einwohner der USA
mit dem amerikanischen Äquivalent zum deutschen SCHUFA-Eintrag. Eine
erfreuliche Entwicklung.

Online-Bankkonten oder auch allgemein Online-Accounts bei Yahoo oder
Facebook sichert man Amerika mit einem Passwort, und für den
Fall, dass man das vergessen hat, hinterlässt der neue Kunde bei
der Anmeldung Antworten
auf sogenannte "Security Questions", auf die nur er die Antwort weiß. Typische
Fragen sind "Welchen Namen hatte ihr erstes Haustier?" oder "In welcher
Straße wohnten Sie als Kind", aber nachdem auch Bösewichte
Antworten auf diese Fragen bei offenherzigen Facebook-Nutzern oft leicht 
herausfinden können, sind diese Fragen meiner Meinung nach totaler Quatsch und
gefährliches Sicherheitstheater.

<pic images/doctor-form.ps (#2) Im Formular für neue Patienten will die Arztpraxis die Sozialversicherungsnummer wissen.>

In Abbildung (#1) seht ihr einen Antrag für eine Kreditkarte, auf dem 
nicht nur nach dem Jahreseinkommen des Antragsstellers gefragt wird, sondern
auch nach der SSN. Man stelle sich vor, dass die Kaufhauskette Macy's
jedem Kunden an der Kasse einmalig
15% Rabatt auf seinen Einkauf gewährt, wenn er einen derartigen
Antrag ausfüllt! Die Verkäufer fragen mich jedes Mal danach,
ob ich nicht 15% sparen möchte, aber ich denke mir immer: Wie bekloppt
müsste ich eigentlich sein, um meine SSN auf einem Zettel zu hinterlassen, 
der stundenlang an einer Registrierkasse rumliegt, den 
Dutzende von Leuten zu Gesicht bekommen und der eine Nummer enthält, die 
es Dieben einfach macht, meine Identität zu stehlen?
Ich empfehle: Im Zweifelsfall immer geizen.

Grüße aus dem informationshungrigen Land:

Angelika \& Michael
