San Francisco, 07-14-2013

@Z: Nutrition labels hide total calorie counts

<pic images/tzatziki-pot.ps (#3) A pot of cucumber yogurt dip. How many calories total is this?>

<em>Michael</em> 
Every shrink-wrapped food item for sale in the U.S., ranging from a
box of serial to a candy bar, from a can of beans to a packed
sliced salami, prominently displays its
<LINK>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nutrition_facts|"Nutrition Facts"</LINK>
(Figure (#1)). The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has been requiring
this information since 1990, and it lists in detail, how many calories, 
how much fat, sugar, salt or vitamins are contained in a product. This
way, the consumer can make an informed choice before buying or eating
a product and knows if it will be contributing to their waistline or 
raise their cholesterol.

<pic images/tzatziki-label.ps (#1) According to the label, this spread only has 30 calories.>

But take a look at the pack of yoghurt-cucumber spread in Figure (#3): Doesn't
the 30 calories count (20 from fat) sound suspiciously low? Indeed, because
it doesn't refer to the complete package content, but only to an amount
defined by the manufacturer as "serving size", as explained further down
on the label. This is the tiny amount the customer is supposed to consume from
the package. If you eat the entire thing, much more than 30 calories will
go straight to your bulgy problem areas, because according to the label, 
the package contains no less than 31 serving sizes. I presume that
if the label said "this cucumber yoghurt contains 900 calories", the yoghurt
would collect dust on the supermarket shelves. For this reason, the
manufacturers manipulate the serving sizes, until the calorie count
drops to a reasonable amount, although hardly anyone will just take
a teaspon of yoghurt, apply it on a cracker and then return 
the entire package to the refrigerator.

<HTMLONLY><pic images/tzatziki-front.ps A delicious, low-calorie spread. Or is it?></HTMLONLY>

What other information is printed on the label? 
It says that the serving size of 20 grams of 
yoghurt (less than one ounce) contains 2 grams of fat, which consists of
1 gram saturated fat and 0 trans-fat, which has been pretty much 
<LINK>http://legacy.utsandiego.com/news/state/20080130-0805-ca-transfatban.html|banned|San Francisco bans trans fat</LINK>
from restaurants in San Francisco anyway. 
The missing gram to arrive at a total of 2 grams of fat apparently got lost
in a rounding error. The serving size also includes 5 milligrams of
cholesterol (a completely useless measure as it's unrelated to the body's
cholesterol level) and 95 milligrams of sodium which is mostly contained
in table salt and covers about 4% of the daily intake, according to the label.
If you can't help but eat the entire pack, that would be 120% of your 
recommended daily salt intake, so pace yourself!

@Z: The Supreme Court's Gay Marriage Ruling

<pic images/city-hall-prop-8.ps Protesters opposing proposition 8 in San Francisco, in front of City Hall. Photo: flickr[Frank Farm|frankfarm/3034085292]>

<em>Angelika</em>
In June, the Supreme Court, the highest and final legal instance
in the United States, ruled on two important issues regarding gay marriage.
A private citizen named Edith Windsor had filed a lawsuit against the
so-called "Defense of Marriage Act" (short: DOMA). DOMA was signed into law
in 1996 by then-president Bill Clinton, and said that individual states 
were no longer required to acknowledge legally granted same-sex marriages 
(e.g. by other states). DOMA determined a marriage to be valid only
between a man and a woman and explicitly did not recognize same-sex 
marriages in the same way.

This put legally married same-sex partners at a disadvantage, because 
they were denied federal benefits like jointly-filed income tax reports, 
higher exemptions on inheritance tax, health insurance for 
family members, or surviving spouse social security. Also, U.S. immigration
didn't recognize same-sex marriages, which means that same-sex spouses 
of legal immigrants weren't automatically granted a visa or Green Card.

Edith Windsor had married her partner Thea Spyer in 2007 in Canada. Both
of them were living in New York state. When Thea died, she bequeathed all
of her assets to Edith, but the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) 
didn't recognize their marriage, which was legally granted in Canada, 
and Edith faced $360,000 in inheritance taxes, because she couldn't 
claim the spouse exemption.

<pic images/allstate-gay.ps The well-known insurance "Allstate" is running ads pro same-sex marriage in San Francisco.>

The United States Supreme Court now ruled in her favor. The judges argued
that DOMA violates the "due process clause" of the 5th amendment of the
Constitution. The ruling is historical and groundbreaking. However, the
Supreme Court emphasized that it's now up to the individual states to legalize
same-sex marriages or pass legislation against them. This is bound to lead
to considerable confusion, because individual government offices apply 
different rules when it comes to providing benefits at the federal level.

The immigration department, for instance, will grant visas or Greencards to
spouses or family members, i.e. children, regardless whether 
the marriage license was issued in the U.S. or in a foreign country.
From previous editions of this publication, 
you might remember that Michael obtained 
his Greencard through his employer, and I received one as well,
simply because I'm married to him. This benefit now extends to all 
legal same-sex marriages.

However, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the Social Security 
Administration are operating by different rules. Tax or social benefits are
determined by the individuals' residence, which means that same-sex couples
will only receive benefits in states where same-sex marriages are legal.
You can easily see that there's a lot more work to be done and 
looming litigation until finally everyone enjoys equal rights.

The second case decided by the Supreme Court ruled over
California Proposition 8 (<RBLINK>20081120#7</RBLINK>). The latter
put same-sex marriages on hold in California in 2008, by defining 
marriage to be legal only between a man and a woman. In return,
opponents immediately challenged Proposition 8 in the US District Court
and judge Vaughn Walker ruled in their favor, arguing that 
Proposition 8 was discriminatory and hence violated the constitution 
of the State of California.

Alas, this did not render same-sex marriages legal in California, since
government agencies and courts were waiting dutifully until the case had
made its way through the higher courts. Then, the Ninth Circuit Court of 
Appeals in California agreed in February 2012 that Proposition 8 was 
violating constitutional rights, and the case went on to the 
highest federal court in the US, the Supreme Court. The judges there,
however, dismissed the case because it wasn't the State of California
filing the suit, but merely proponents of Proposition 8. The US Supreme
Court decided that a lawsuit regarding the constitution of the State of 
California can only be filed by the State of California itself and not
by a private party not officially representing the state.
It thereby also voided the decision of the lower Ninth Circuit Court of
Appeals, because it wasn't the State of California filing that 
lawsuit either. What remained was the first decision at the lowest court
(Perry vs. Schwarzenegger), where the court had ruled Proposition
unconstitutional, and that's the reason why since end of June there's
been a flurry of legal same-sex marriages throughout California. The first
one of course was held in San Francisco.

@Z: German Tagesschau Won't Broadcast Certain Segments

<pic images/roku-tv.ps (#4) The little Roku device (bottom left) fetches the German news show "Tagesschau" via the Internet onto our TV at the push of the remote control button.>

<em>Michael</em>
As you probably already know, we've gotten into the habit of watching the 
daily German news show "Tagesschau" by help of a small
streaming device called <LINK>http://www.roku.com|Roku</LINK> in our
living room.
It's really easy to do, since the sandwich-sized box supports not only
Netflix, Amazon Instant Video, and about a dozen other content providers,
but also this most famous German news show. Three clicks with the remote,
and within 10 seconds, it starts running on our TV in San Francisco. 
Thanks to the time difference, on the weekends, we often watch the 
8:00pm show already in the early afternoon.

<pic images/tagesschau-content-restricted.ps (#5) The German news show "Tagesschau" is prohibited from broadcasting the sports segment on the Internet.>

I find that the "Tagesschau" with its 15 minutes of pure daily news really fits
my needs. Their reporting is neutral, without much filler material, the
only complaint I have is that they always announce some political figurehead
visiting a disaster area with the phrase 
"to get an impression on the situation", on which the editor in chief should
ring the alarm bells and cut it out of the manuscript immediately. It's
really getting old, Tagesschau, have you realized that yet?

But the reason why I'm talking about this topic today is that towards
the end of the show, on weekends, there's almost always a sports segment
with some footage on the current league soccer games. Unfortunately, 
it is always blocked in its entirety by the ugly censor screen in Figure (#5).
I can imagine that it is greedy content peddlers strong-arming the public 
German TV station to suppress this information.
The same annoyance occurs with Formula One car races. Only exotic sports
like women's soccer or tennis are being broadcasted freely. 
And earlier today, I've witnessed a new low: At the end of the newscast, there
was a report on a newly erected historical site to commemorate Nazi 
euthanasia crimes, and while airing some historical footage in 
black-and-white the same censor screen came on: "For legal reasons, 
this content cannot be shown on the Internet". Really, Tagesschau? 
Sometimes I think some of the content regulators need to get
their heads examined.

@Z: Our Subway, BART, is on strike

<pic images/bart-train.ps BART: The Bay Area's subway system>

<em>Angelika</em>
By American standards, San Francisco and the Bay Area are exemplary
when it comes to public transportation offerings. There's buses, street
cars, and a subway. The subway system BART (Bay Area Rapid Transit) features
a single line within the limits of the city of San Francisco, extending all
the way south to SFO airport, but also also connects the East Bay
(Oakland, Richmond, Berkeley, Pleasanton) with San Francisco,
crossing the Bay waters via an underwater tunnel.

Since San Francisco is surrounded by water, you'll run into a bridge to 
be crossed sooner or later, which during rush hour inevitably leads
to hopelessly clogged roads. On the Bay Bridge, connecting San Francisco and
Oakland on the East Bay side, there's often bumper-to-bumper traffic and
disgruntled drivers are stuck in traffic for hours. For this reason,
the BART subway system is an indispensable transportation alternative.
About 400,000 commuters are using BART every day. In my personal opinion,
that's still too few, but the rider numbers have doubled in the last
fifteen years. In recent weeks, we've found out the hard way how 
important BART has become: BART workers went on strike between July 1st and
4th.

<pic images/bart-gate-locked.ps BART customers were locked out for four consecutive days during the strike.>

Labor protests are relatively rare in the US, as unions have been weakened
over the years. The last time BART workers went on strike was sixteen years
ago, for example. But it still happens. BART employees are, to put
it simply, public servants of the State of California. On top of 
ticket sales, BART is supported by the tax payers, it's not a private
company.

What were the striking BART workers looking for? 
No doubt for higher compensation,
but also for better social benefits. As a non-resident, you're probably 
surprised to hear that in the U.S., many social benefits, like vacation,
aren't regulated by law. Instead, there are significant differences in what 
individual companies offer their employees. BART management wants, for
example, that their employees increase their montly payments for their 
health benefits and raise the contributions for the corporate 
pension fund, of which the employer is currently paying the entire amount.
Also, every BART employee pays $92 per month for health insurance, regardless
of how many family members (e.g. children) are covered.

<HTMLONLY><pic images/bart-sign.ps This usually busy station is now shut down because of the BART strike.></HTMLONLY>

It's quite the norm in the U.S. that affluent tech companies pay their 
employee's health insurance premiums in full, requesting only
a small contribution from employees in most cases. 
Companies like Apple, Google, Yahoo have been doing that for years 
to be able to attract qualified and happy software specialists. 
My employer's health plan, on the other hand, requires employees to 
foot a much larger amount, although our salaries are tiny in comparison. 
For this reason, I prefer to be insured with Michael, 
although I'm working full time.

BART workers take home surprisingly high salaries, compared to other positions
in the industry only requiring a high school diploma. Depending on who you ask,
employees or BART management, a BART worker's yearly base salary runs 
somewhere between $60,000 and $80,000, and on top of that, there's an
obscure system of overtime payments and social benefits.

<pic images/bart-glen-park.ps Only a few pigeons have been seen today at the usually busy Glen Park BART station.>

This inevitably led to some resentment expressed by Bay Area citizens, 
although they are known for their liberal views. Many felt that the strike
wasn't justified. I think it's about time to establish better working
condition for all workers across the entire U.S., like statutory requirements
for sick days and maternity leave. But that's probably a pipe dream, in
light of how elected officials quarreled with each other to get 
the national health insurance in place. In any case, since July 5th,
BART has been operating normally again, since the old labor agreement 
was extended by 30 days. But this means that there's a chance that the
trains will stop running again next month, if the two parties can't 
get to an agreement.

@Z: Top Product: The Peeramid pyramid for reading on your iPad

<pic images/peeramid-solo.ps Simple, but very handy: The reading pyramid for the E-book Reader>

<em>Michael</em> 
If you like reading on your iPad while sitting in your favorite recliner 
or lying in bed, you're familiar with how heavy the device gets all of 
a sudden. Wham-bam, and you're snoozing off, but you really wanted to keep
reading! To combat this problem, I recently bought a 
<LINK>http://www.amazon.com/dp/B00771NUSY|pyramid-shaped pillow named Peeramid</LINK> from Amazon, after getting curious by the raving reviews the item
had received. It sits on your lap or on the blanket and keeps the iPad
upright at an angle for reading without having to hold it upright.

<pic images/peeramid-chair.ps Michael with his iPad in the reclining chair.>

This device is the best innovation since sliced bread! It looks pretty
funny, like a diploma hat with a tassel attached to it at the end of
a 2-foot rope. Its velvet cover is 
pleasant to the touch, and it holds the iPad securely in place, even when 
I'm so tired that I'm about to doze off. If it's lying somewhere near,
just grab the tassel and pull it towards you. It's about $25 on Amazon.com,
which is an outragious amount of money for an item that's probably been made
for not more than $5 in China, but it's really nicely sewn and the high-quality 
cover will even satisfy demanding customers. And it's well-known that 
I have no problem paying a premium for quirky new products. Top product!

@Z: Climbing at Planet Granite

<pic images/planet-granite-low.ps One of the USArundbrief editors climbs up the wall at the climbing gym "Planet Granite". Foto: Bettina Oswald>

<em>Michael</em> 
If I'm not mistaken, the obsession of climbing indoors on artificial walls
must have originated in Germany, or how else would you explain that I've 
been doing that since the 90ies, back then at the Thalkirchen climbing 
center in Munich? In the U.S., the sport is 
called "indoor climbing" and there's a 
micro-chain gym called "Planet Granite" in San Francisco and the surrounding
Bay Area that offers several fitness clubs with rock climbing walls. 
After a hard day's work, it's quite common to meet fellow 
techies there, and ironically also often German-speaking immigrants.
Almost every Wednesday, I've been hanging out there with our friends
Bettina, Miguel, Chris and Tranquilla for quite some time.

I remember that back in Munich, we just showed up at the outdoor 
climbing facility in Thalkirchen with climbing shoes, a rope and a couple
of hooks, and off we went up the climbing walls. In the U.S., with its
litigious society, it's more strictly regulated. When I showed up
at Planet Granite many years ago for the first time, the staff there 
wanted to talk me into pay for a beginner's climbing class to learn 
belay techniques, which I already had on auto-pilot because I had been 
using them successfully for many years. Luckily, I convinced them to start
their certification process for free with me, by me showing them how to 
tighten knots and using their belay device safely.

<pic images/planet-granite-high.ps I'll manage even overhanging walls if they're not too steep (this one has a rating of 5.10a) Photo: Bettina Oswald>

Belaying isn't hard and an average person can learn the knots and 
rope techniques within a couple of minutes. But I demonstrated the procedure 
slightly differently to them, 
boldly deviating from the climbing gym's holy scripture, and they
failed me the first time! The second time, I did it exactly as they 
wanted and passed. Ever since, my climbing belt has a red card hanging 
hanging 
from it, which authorizes me to belay other climbers. It is only applicable
to the so-called top rope technique, which uses a fixed rope already
installed on the route. With this, the belayer constantly keeps tightening 
the rope, so that the climber will never fall more than a foot or two, even
if they slip badly. But with the red card license, I'm not permitted to bring
my own rope and lead, or belay someone leading, for that matter. 
For this, they require
another, more advanced certification, and upon passing, you'll proudly 
display a green laminated card 
bouncing from your belt. Clearly ridiculous, but, hey, who am I to complain.
Every installed rope comes with a belay device called a 
<LINK>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grigri_(climbing)|Grigri</LINK>, which
is dead-simple to use and allegedly 
provides better safety than the half-mast knots we used instead in Munich. 
Patrolling staff members make sure everyone using the Grigri holds the
outcoming rope tighly in their hand to make sure its safety is enabled, 
and if someone doesn't they'll approach you and remind you in no uncertain
terms of the correct procedure.

TODO_TRANSLATE

Interessant ist auch das amerikanische System für Schwierigkeitsgrade beim
Klettern. Aus Deutschland kannte ich das "UIAA" genannte
System, nach dem ein "Vierer" eine einfache Route mit Griffen
ist, an denen man sich wie an einer Leiter hochhangeln kann. Beim "Fünfer"
sind die Griffe dann kleiner und beim "Sechser" muss man schon Technik
einsetzen, um überhaupt hochzukommen. Wie man aus der
<LINK>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grade_(climbing)#Free_climbing_2|Klettergradvergleichstabelle auf Wikipedia</LINK> entnehmen kann, sind die entsprechenden
amerikanischen Bewertungen 5.4 bis 5.6 für den Vierer, 5.7 bis 5.9 für den
Fünfer und 5.10a, 5.10b, 5.10c, 5.10d und 5.11a für den Sechser. 
Die Tabelle geht noch weiter,
aber diese Schwierigkeitsgrade schaffen dann nur noch Spinnenmenschen.
Ich bewege mich seit Jahren so um die 5.10a bis 5.10c, an einem guten
Tag schaffe ich vielleicht auch mal eine 5.10d. Das Kletterzentrum scheint
interessanterweise auch als Anbandelbetrieb zu dienen, denn hin und wieder 
veranstaltet es Singleabende, an dem sich offensichtlich Paare finden 
können!

@Z: Lagavulin Whiskey

<pic images/lagavulin.ps Einer des besten Whiskeys der Welt: Lagavulin 16.>

<em>Michael</em>
Whiskey, oder "Whisky", wie der Brite sagt, ist ein hoch\-pro\-zentiges 
alkoholisches Getränk, das meistens als Destillat aus gemälztem Getreide 
ensteht. Grundlage amerikanischer Bourbon-Whiskeys ist nor\-ma\-ler\-weise 
Mais, 
schottische "Scotch"-Whiskeys hin\-gegen verwenden gemälzte Gerste. Wie man
einem länglichen unge\-listeten
<LINK>https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4bFwABaP3Ts|Youtube-Video zur Scotch-Herstellung</LINK>
entnehmen kann, spezialisiert sich besonders die kleine schottische Insel Islay auf sogenannte Moor-Whis\-keys, deren Gerste während des Mälzvorgangs mit 
Torf befeuert wird und die deswegen den typischen rauchigen, 
moorigen Geruch und Ge\-schmack aufweisen. Wenn man einen Computer aufschraubt
und an der Platine des Motherboards herumschnuppert, schnappt man übrigens oft
ähnliche Duftnoten auf.

<pic images/lagavulin-pronounce.ps Der Schauspieler Brian Cox probiert und demon\-striert die korrekte Aussprache schottischer Whiskeys.>

Der Scotch der Marke "Lagavulin" tauchte interessanterweise auf mehreren
Ebenen gleichzeitig auf meinen Radarschirmen auf. Erst schickte mir jemand
einen Link auf eine Serie von Videos, in denen der 
<LINK>http://www.esquire.com/blogs/food-for-men/scotch-whisky-brands-list-5841578|Schauspieler Brian Cox schottische Whiskeys ausspricht|Brian Cox spricht schottische Whiskeynamen aus</LINK>.
Das ist gar nicht so einfach, wie man auf den ersten Blick vermuten würde, 
denn wendet man die Regeln der englischen Sprache auf die schottischen 
Namen an, kommt meist nichts Gescheites heraus. Oder wusstet ihr Klugschnacker
etwa, wie man "Bruichladdich" ausspricht? In den Videos nennt 
Brian Cox Lagavulin den "Cognac of Whiskeys" und versichert, dass das
Getränk wirkt wie eine Wasserbombe ("depth charge"), mit der man U-Booten
in den Tiefen des Meeres heimleuchtet.

<pic images/lagavulin-parkrec.ps Ron Swanson in der Fernsehserie "Parks and Recreation" liebt seinen Lagavulin-Whiskey.>

Dann tauchte Lagavulin auch noch in einer der wenigen ame\-ri\-ka\-ni\-schen 
TV-Serien auf, die ich regelmäßig ansehe: "Parks and Recreation". Der 
exzentrische Chef der Bürokraten dort ist ein gewisser Ron Swanson, der
sich ausschließlich von Fleisch ernährt und dazu Whiskey trinkt. 
Lagavulin natürlich. Wieso man ein Steak mit einem
noch dazu moorigen schottischen Whiskey herunterspült und nicht mit einem
bis zum Exzess im Eichenfass ausgebauten kalifornischen Cabernet Sauvignon,
darauf weiß wahrscheinlich auch nur der Product-Placement-Verkaufsheini
von "Parks and Rec" eine Antwort.

<pic images/lagavulin-costco.ps (#2) Mit 13 Dollar Rabatt kostet eine Flasche Lagavulin nur noch 54.99 Dollar.>

<pic images/lagavulin-store.ps Lagavulin im Sonderangebot im Super\-markt.>

Der nächste Leuchtfleck auf meinem Radarschirm kam dann vom Riesensupermarkt
Costco, der Lagavulin im Sonderangebot verkaufte. Statt $67.99 kostete 
eine Flasche "nur" noch $54.99 und darum habe ich gleich zwei eingepackt
(Abbildung (#2)).
Der "Lagavulin 16" ist ein 16 Jahre gereifter "Single Malt" und schmeckt 
extrem nach verbranntem Torf. Man trinkt ihn ausschließlich pur und bei 
Zimmertemperatur,
und ich habe schon Geschichten gehört, nachdem ein Arbeitskollege 
amerikanische Gäste des Hauses verwiesen hat, die ihn gefragt hatten, ob
er Lagavulin nicht mit Eiswürfeln im Glas servieren könne. Unglaublich!

@Z: Sommerferien

<pic images/camp-galileo.ps Eltern geben ihre Kinder während der Ferien im Feriencamp ab.>

<em>Angelika</em>
Auch in den USA fiebert jedes Schulkind den Sommerferien
entgegen. Amerikanische Sommerferien sind länger als deutsche, sie dauern
je nach Schuldistrikt zwei bis drei Monate. Für die
Kinder in San Francisco war der letzte Schultag vor den Sommerferien der 31.
Mai und ab 19. August müssen sie wieder die Schulbank drücken. In der Regel
liegen die Sommerferien also in den Monaten Juni, Juli, August. 
Es hält sich dabei das
Gerücht, dass die langen Sommerferien historisch zustande kamen, weil im
ländlichen Amerika die Kinder in der Landwirtschaft helfen mussten. Andere
behaupten wieder, dass, ganz im Gegenteil, die Metropolen in den 
Sommermonaten wegen Hitzewellen zu Brutkästen wurden und deshalb aus 
gesundheitlichen Erwägungen heraus die Schulen im Sommer ihre Tore 
schlossen. Wie dem auch sei, lange Sommerferien
haben sich in den USA durchgesetzt.

Was machen nun aber die Kinder in den langen Sommerferien in einem Land, in dem
häufig  beide Eltern arbeiten und der Urlaub der Eltern oft nur zwei Wochen
pro Jahr beträgt? Zunächst einmal gibt es die sogenannte Sommerschule
("summer school"), in der Stoff nachgeholt wird, um den
Notendurchschnitt anzuheben. In der Regel kommt dies aber erst in höheren
Klassen vor, zum Beispiel in der High School. Auch viele Universitäten bieten
im Sommer Kurse an, die einge Studenten auch nutzen, um ihr Studium zu
beschleunigen. Sonderschüler, auch wenn sie normalerwise in
Integrationsklassen lernen, erhalten in der Regel vier Wochen zusätzlichen
Unterricht und Therapie (Logopädie, Ergotherapie etc.), weil die langen Ferien
unter Umständen dazu führen, dass sie erworbene Fähigkeiten verlieren. Das
Ganze nennt sich dann erweitertes Schuljahr ("Extended School Year"). Die
Kinder, mit denen ich  arbeite, erhalten meist vier Wochen Unterricht.

Und dann gibt es noch die Camps ("Summer Camps"). Früher habe ich immer
geglaubt, dass jedes amerikanische Kind im Sommer ins Camp abgeschoben wird 
und als Pfadfinder Feuermachen und Holzschnitzen lernt.
Die Vorstellung,
dass man dabei in Holzhütten neben einem Haufen Kinder schläft war mir immer
ein Graus. Diese Übernachtungscamps gibt es zwar immer noch, aber meine
Vorurteile entsprechen natürlich nicht der Wirklichkeit, denn im Angebot sind
Surfcamps, Sprachreisen, Abenteuercamps oder Camps, in denen der Schüler
lernt, Filme zu machen, und zwar in den Straßen von New York oder Paris. 
Viele Kinder,
gerade jüngere, besuchen aber sogenannte Tagescamps, d.h., sie sind tagsüber
im Camp und schlafen aber zu Hause. Auch hier gibt es eine bunte Auswahl von
den unterschiedlichsten Camps. Im Sommer bin ich häufiger mit einem meiner
autistischen Kinder von der Arbeit im Camp mit dabei, um bei der 
Integration in die Campgruppe
zu helfen. In San Francisco und der Bay Area hat zum Beispiel das 
<LINK>http://www.galileo-camps.com|Camp Galileo</LINK>
einen guten Ruf, bei dem ich gerade letzte Woche mit einem meiner
betreuten Kinder war. Jede Woche nimmt das Camp Galileo einen anderen
Themenschwerpunkt durch. 
Themen sind zum Beispiel Raumfahrt, Safari, Mittelalter und
die Kinder machen Spiele, Bastelangebote und kleine naturwissenschaftliche
Experimente. Die Eltern können ihre Kinder entweder nur für eine Woche
anmelden oder gleich für mehrere. 
Der Spaß ist allerdings nicht ganz billig. Eine
Woche Galileo Camp von 9 bis 15 Uhr kostet $360-380 pro Woche, wird aber
pro Woche billiger, wenn das Kind mehrere Wochen mit dabei ist.
Man kann schon auch günstigere Camps finden, aber die
sind oft von der Qualität her nicht so gut. Die Camp-Mitarbeiter sind in der
Regel enthusiastische Studenten, die sich in den Semesterferien Geld dazu
verdienen wollen. So einfach stelle ich mir den Job allerdings nicht vor, da
man sich ja ständig auf neue Rabauken einzustellen hat.

@Z: Vacation Rental By Owner

<pic images/vrbo-patio.ps Michael auf dem Balkon eines Ferienhauses auf Hawaii.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Im März fuhren wir einmal wieder kurz entschlossen nach
Hawaii auf die Insel Oahu. Schon seit langem gehen wir nicht mehr ins Hotel,
sondern mieten uns eine Ferienwohnung, denn in unserem Lieblingsort Kailua gibt
es eh keine Hotels. Da wir genau wissen, was wir wollen und uns in Kailua
mittlerweile ganz gut auskennen, buche ich immer über die Website "vrbo.com"
("Vacational Rental by Owner").
Hier stellen die Eigentümer ihre Ferienwohnungen, und zwar welweit, vor,
deshalb auch der Name "Ferienwohnungen zu mieten vom Besitzer".

Sucht ihr eine Ferienwohnung auf Oahu, klickt man erst auf die
USA-Karte, dann auf den Bundesstaat Hawaii, dann auf die Insel Oahu und dann
werden Häuser und Wohnungen in den unterschiedlichen Orten angeboten. Die
Suche kann man dann weiter einschränken: Wieviele Schlafzimmer braucht
man, soll die Ferienwohnung direkt am Strand sein, zu welchem Zeitpunkt will
man mieten? Dann schickt der Urlaubshungrige eine E-Mail an den Vermieter
über die Webseite und in der Regel kontaktieren diese einen innerhalb von 1-2
Tagen. 

<pic images/vrbo-inside.ps Typisch hawaiianisch: Holzfußboden und Rattanmöbel>

Bei den Wohnungen, die wir bis jetzt gebucht haben, mussten wir dann
immer eine Anzahlung von ein paar hundert Dollar berappen und einen
unterschriebenen Vertrag an den Besitzer schicken. Vier Wochen vor Beginn des
Urlaubs will der Besitzer dann die ganze Mietsumme haben. Die meisten wollen
den Endbetrag per Scheck oder Money Order (gibt es zum Beispiel bei der
amerikanischen Post), nur wenige nehmen Kreditkarten, da diese in der Regel
Gebühren von den Vermietern erheben.

<pic images/vrbo-grill.ps Ein Holzkohlengrill darf nicht fehlen.>

Jedes Mal denken wir uns wieder, dass es eigentlich erstaunlich ist, dass alles
so gut klappt. In Hawaii sind die Vermieter meistens nicht vor Ort, da sie
irgendwo anders in den USA leben. Meist gibt es dann jemanden auf der Insel,
der die Ferienwohung betreut. Im März mieteten wir uns im Nachbarort von
Kailua ein, und zwar in Lanikai. Die beiden Orte hängen im Prinzip fast
aneinander. Es gab zwar einen Verwalter auf der Insel, aber mit dem hatte ich
nur einmal vorher telefoniert und wir sahen ihn während unseres ganzen
Aufenthaltes nicht. 
Der Schlüssel lag in der Ferienwohnung, die Tür war offen und
bei unserer Abfahrt legten wir den Schlüssel einfach auf den Küchentresen. 
Für
Notfälle hatte wir die Telefonnummer des Verwalters und der Putzfrau. Die
Wohnung war klasse, wie ihr unschwer auf den Fotos erkennen könnt.

@Z: Hawaii: Der Strand ist für alle da

<pic images/surfer-dude.ps Michael ist der älteste Surfer am Strand von Honolulu.>

<em>Angelika</em>
Auch auf Hawaii geht es natürlich nicht immer paradiesisch zu. Das Verbauen
der Inseln ist dabei ein Dauerthema. Oft erwerben zum Verdruss der Einheimischen
reiche Bonzen Häuser auf Hawaii, die ihre Feriendomizile nur ein paarmal
pro Jahr bewohnen. Die Häuser sind oft riesig und strandnah, stehen
aber eben fast das ganze Jahr leer. Ein Segen ist es deshalb, dass 1974 der
Bundesstaat Hawaii ein Gesetz verabschiedete, das besagt, dass alle Strände
in Hawaii für die Öffentlichkeit zugänglich sein müssen. 

<pic images/hawaii-public-access.ps Der öffentliche Zugang zum Strand auf Hawaii.>

Kein Hotel oder
Hausbesitzer kann Strände als Privateigentum deklarieren. In Kailua und
Lanikai, wo wir uns meist aufhalten, wenn wir auf Oahu weilen, führen deshalb
zwischen den Privathäusern etwas unscheinbare breitere sandige
Wege zum Strand. Ein Schild weist auf den öffentlichen Strandzugang hin. 
Die Strandgänger parken
dann natürlich kreuz und quer in der Nähe dieser Pfade, 
was die Hausbesitzer entnervt, vor allen Dingen, wenn die
Touristen alles zuparken. Deshalb versuchen viele der Hauseigentümer, das
Recht auf diesen freien Zugang einzuschränken. Manchmal wandeln sie zum 
Beispiel kleine Stichstraßen in private Straßen um, damit keiner mehr in
den Privatstraßen parken kann. Da ist es dann aus mit dem Aloha-Stimmung.

Falls aber in einer Seitenstraße kein Schild mit der Aufschrift
"Private Road" steht, darf man dort auch als Tourist guten Gewissens parken. 
Das gilt selbst für die kurzgeschorenen Rasenflächen vor umzäunten Häusern
wenn dort nichts Gegenteiliges steht.

Grüße aus dem regelkonformen Schlaraffenland:

Angelika \& Michael
