San Francisco, 12-01-2013

@Z: German singer Herbert Grönemeyer in San Francisco

<pic images/groenemeyer-sign.ps German singer Herbert Grönemeyer performs in the Bimbo's 365 club in San Francisco.>

<em>Michael</em>
The German musician Herbert Grönemeyer, so popular in his home country that
he's effortlessly filling sport stadiums over there, is completely 
unknown in the U.S. When I got wind of him touring the U.S. and performing
in a small club in San Francisco, I immediately purchased two tickets 
at $50 a piece. We then took along our German expat friends Conny and Roland and
went up to SF's Italian neighborhood "North Beach",
to enter a club named "Bimbo's 365". We sat down at a set table (!), just like
Humphrey Bogart und Lauren Bacall back in the olden days, and only about 60 feet
from the stage, a waiter took our drink orders. We happily complied with the
"two drink minimum" as required according to our event ticket.

<pic images/groenemeyer-ticket.ps Not a bad deal at only 50 Dollars per ticket.>

<pic images/groenemeyer-booth.ps German expats lounging at a table at "Bimbo's", a small club in San Francisco's North Beach neighborhood, while Herbert is performing on stage.>

Grönemeyer has been touring several major metropolitan areas in the
U.S. recently, performing some of his old and new songs overseas.
But he's singing them in English instead of smattering 
the original German lyrics.
Of course, this sounds absurd, since Grönemeyer's 
meaning-laden, almost pompous lyrics clash somewhat with the
unintellectual, down-to-earth American lifestyle. And you can't help but 
notice a heavy German accent, which completely derails the experience, at
least for me. I remember that the German singer Udo Lindenberg once tried 
singing English translations of his recordings in the 1980ies, and until 
today, I remember these flesh-crawling moments. Grönemeyer's pronunciation 
isn't quite as bad, though. Except for the "I Walk" intro which should be
scrapped completely from his repertoire, as it is horrible, and
involuntarily funny at best.
Musically, I really like the "To the Sea" song, but the English lyrics aren't
quite on par with the German original ("Zum Meer"). When will German musicians
learn that you can't translate lyrics verbatim while switching between
different cultural environments? I would suggest that Gröni-Boy 
gets in touch with a more talented writer. I personally am already booked, 
so I need to pass, but come on, give some new kid a chance!

<pic images/groenemeyer-crowd.ps The German San Francisco population is loudly singing along with Grönemeyer.>

<pic images/groeni-tour.ps The Grönemeyer band is touring many major metropolitan areas in the U.S., and then drives up to Canada.>

What's even more distracting is if you've been growing 
up singing along with the German original
lyrics. Some of them are very unique, with a strike of genius, 
and of course untranslateable, like the smattering "Schatten im Blick", 
for example. Most of the people in the audience were, unsurprisingly,
German expats, who took the opportunity to see Grönemeyer up close and
at a discount price. And, hardly surprisingly either, obnoxiously kept 
heckling him to sing in German! He actually gave in a couple of times,
and the crowd in front of the stage went bananas in every single instance.
They jumped and danced, and the stage lights pointed at a raging ocean
of people waving arms and singing along out loudly and ecstaticly. 
Grönemeyer was visibly moved by the crowd response and gave at least
five encores. Will he make it in the American music scene? I really 
don't know, but it's worth a try. In any case, the German expats in 
San Francisco truly enjoyed the experience, and at a price that you just
can't beat.

@Z: Ugly new buildings in San Francisco

<pic images/whole-foods.ps The grocery store chain Whole Foods prefers new locations near ugly new buildings.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
When I was a teenager, I loved a German book with a title that roughly
translates to "Here's a house being demolished, there's a construction
crane and the bulldozer beckons, or: Changes in the city" and was
written by Jörg Müller und Heinz Ledergerber. It's a picture book, 
illustrating the appalling construction changes happening over the course 
of time in a once beautiful city. It first
shows almost unnoticable small changes, but towards the end, everything
is covered with concrete. To get an impression of what I'm referring to, 
check out the 
<LINK>http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0rMzdN0MMJw|Youtube video "Changes in the City"</LINK>.

When I'm walking around San Francisco latetly, I get the feeling that
very similar changes are happening here, and to my horror, 
they're reminding me of the illustrations in the old book. There's a newly 
fueled construction frenzy under way in San Francisco these days, and
you could get the impression that the architects designing the new buildings
were all spat out from a college class titled "How to build boring and 
identical looking eyesores costing exorbitant amounts of money".
Large parts of Market Street, winding through various parts of San 
Francisco, are under construction, from the Embarcadero at the Bay, through
the inner city and later in the Castro and Twin Peaks neigborhoods.

Although Market Street is one of the major arteries of San Francisco's
downtown district, it features a surprising number of stretches that
are badly run-down. 
Especially the part between Civic Center (where the government buildings are)
and Powell Street (where the cable
car departs) takes some time to get used to. There's homeless people, 
red light theaters, and most of the shops were looking somewhat dubiously until 
recently. Since we've been living in the area, there's always been plans
to clean up this stretch and make it prettier. The first few steps in this
direction looked promising, parts of Market Street were closed for 
through traffic in 2009, and bike lanes were added. But ever since, one
glass window monster building after another has been erected there, and some
of the charme of many of San Francisco's hidden corners was
lost forever.

<pic images/whole-foods-2.ps Another Whole Foods in an ugly new building.>

There's no doubt that San Francisco urgently needs more living space,
but the mushrooming
tacky new luxury silos resemble hotel towers, and so are outrageously
expensive, so that only hipsters and techies working for the various
companies in Silicon Valley, located 30 miles south of San Francisco,
can afford them. Many don't want to live down there, though,
where one faceless town borders the next, featuring only shopping centers, 
dreary housing complexes, and freeways.

For this reason, many in San Francisco curse the so-called "Google Bus 
Syndrome".
Michael has mentioned in a previous edition, that the big companies in
Silicon Valley offer lots of perks for their employees. One of them is
that they're running big luxury coaches, called shuttles, 
which are picking up employees of Yahoo, Google, Apple, or Genentech in
the morning in San Francisco, and are taking them back home again at night
(<RBLINK>20070427#2</RBLINK>). This is both convenient for the 
commuters and effective for the companies, as employees can start working
on their laptops on the bus, instead of sitting behind the wheel. By itself,
that's a commendable idea, which helps saving the environment, since
a bus seats many more people than a car and causes less pollution 
than everyone driving by themselves. 
As a side effect, however, these buses cause the rents
to increase in the neighborhoods they frequent, because many tech workers
value the fact that all they need to do in the morning is walk a few blocks
to board a shuttle that is driving them straight away to work.

<pic images/mission.ps Traditional houses in San Francisco: This is what the neighborhood looked like when we moved here.>

<pic images/duboce.ps New building on Duboce Street: Again the dreaded architectural blandness.>

On average, in San Francisco, rent is up about 20% from last year. The
above mentioned housing complexes on the corner of Market and Dolores
Street charge almost $3,000 a month for a studio 
(that's a single room appartment with built-in kitchen) and $3,500 for a 
one bedroom appartment. A two bedroom appartment goes for $3,800 and a
three bedroom for a whopping $8,000. On city-wide average, a two bedroom
apparment currently rents for about $3,400. That's changing the landscape
significantly, because there's more and more people from the so-called
middle class who can't afford to live in San Francisco anymore and are
forced to move someplace else. Especially families with kids are leaving. 
In the meantime, the pressure increases on the mayor and the city council,
because no one wants to live in a city without kids or seniors, or people
with professions supporting the city, like firemen, policemen, nurses,
teachers, retail sales people, or garbage collectors. No one working
in these fields can currently afford to live in San Francisco anymore.

<pic images/soma-building.ps In the "Dogpatch" Neighborhood: All new buildings look the same.>

The city even forces homebuilders to create 12% of all newly built units
as low cost housing. Builders can choose whether to build those themselves or
pay a fee to the city, which then steps in and does it for them. With this
rule in place, a total of 21 million dollars has been accumulated, but
it's of no help if the city just keeps sitting on it. In the meantime,
with my salary, appartments within city limits have moved out of reach for me, 
despite the fact that I'm working full time. Many of my
colleagues are living with their parents or share a space with a group of
people for the same reason.

@Z: Halloween, politically correct

<pic images/tv-news-halloween.ps On the news: a campaign against controversial Halloween costumes.>

<em>Michael</em>
When I was growing up, I usually chose one of two costumes for carnival:
Either Cowboy or Indian. My circle of American friends has confirmed 
that there used to be similar customs in rural America as well, but that 
since roughly the 1960ies, it has been considered politically incorrect 
to dress children up as Indians, because the displacement of the native
American population is considered to be one of the darkest chapters
in the country's history.

Also, it would be considered an absolute no-no to dress up as a black person,
as Americans generally don't condone joking about a person's ethnicity. An
African American colleague at work once told me laughingly that while
he was on vacation in Sweden, he once rubbed his eyes in disbelief upon
noticing a group of partying locals with their faces painted black while
wearing Afro wigs.

<pic images/tv-news-poster.ps Allegedly not funny: Dressing up as Geisha or suicide bomber.>

Recently, a local news show in San Francisco aired a segment on a 
poster campaign titled <LINK>http://www.cnn.com/2011/10/26/living/halloween-ethnic-costumes/index.html|"We're a culture, not a costume"</LINK>, run by a
third-tier university somewhere in the U.S., just in time for the
upcoming Halloween celebrations. The posters depict young people making
sad faces and holding pictures into the camera, showing Halloween costumes
making fun of the person's cultural background. A Japanese girl holds up
a photo of a carnival geisha, and a young middle eastern man shows a photo
of a party goer dressed up as a suicide bomber holding up a switch.
I don't know, I find it somewhat excessive to get all riled up at
jokes like this, but we're living in a free country. As long as I don't have
to hold up a picture of a Lederhosen-wearing Bavarian mountain man and make
a sad face, that is.

@Z: Driver's Licenses for illegal immigrants in California

<pic images/dmv.ps Will soon be issuing driver's licenses for illegal immigrants: the Department of Motor Vehicles in California (DMV).>

<em>Angelika</em> 
After a decade of back-and-forth,
our governor Jerry Brown recently rushed to sign a law without much publicity, that allows the California department of motor vehicles to issue <LINK>http://www.reuters.com/article/2013/10/04/us-usa-california-immigration-idUSBRE99301I20131004|driver's licenses to illegal immigrants</LINK>.
With this law in place, California is the 10th state to allow this practice,
and with an estimated number of 3.5 million illegal immigrants, and although
it might sound strange, this is actually a fairly pragmatic move. 
Before the legislative change, many of the illegal immigrants had been
driving without a licence and usually also without insurance. In case they
got into an accident, it wasn't uncommon for them to speed away from the scene,
fearing deportation when authorities would bring their immigration status
to light. With the opportunity to obtain legal driving documents,
they now have to pass written and a driving tests to at least ensure 
that they're aware of minimum safety standards, and, equally importantly,
they now can legally purchase liability insurance. 

<pic images/dmv-driving-test.ps This location will even allow illegal immigrants to take the California driving test.>

That's the reason even more conservative organtizations like the California
Highway Patrol (CHP) are in favor of this new law. It needs to be said, 
though, that the driver's licenses issued to illegal immigrants will 
bear a notice
to indicate that it's exclusively issued as a driving permit and not
as a valid form of ID. For example, they won't be valid to go through 
airport security, which is consistent with the regulations of the Department
of Homeland Security, which governs airports across the United States.
Immigrant groups raised the question if the notice on the license will reveal
the holder's immigration status. By California law, it is illegal 
to discriminate against residents in this way, so there's apparently some
kinks in the new law that need to be straightened out. The new
documents are supposedly to be issued starting 2015.

@Z: Surfing in an Alaska-grade Wetsuit

<pic images/wetsuit.ps Old surfer on a Pacific beach.>

<em>Michael</em>
You might be aware of the fact that the Pacific ocean waters 
near San Francisco are so cold, that on average a few people drown 
close to the shore every
year. Beach walkers are either caught by surprise by so-called "sleeper waves"
(random unexpectedly big waves) and swept in, or they 
foolishly go in to rescue their swept-in pets. 
They don't realize that at 50 degrees Fahrenheit water temperature, 
muscles go stiff quickly, and unable to perform the required forceful 
strokes to overcome currents, even experienced swimmers can't make it back 
to shore.

But, as you might also know, even at my advanced age, I'm still trying to 
establish myself as a surfer, and only practicing during the yearly 
Hawaii vacation isn't going to cut it. That's why recently during a 
stay in the surfer paradise of Santa Cruz, I entered a local surf shop
and purchased a really thick wetsuit that allows me to bear
the local water temperatures.

What's not so obvious is that stepping into a wetsuit involves laborious
physical work. This 
daunted on me when the surf shop salesman, after he had picked 
a suit for my size, and nudged me to the fitting room, casually said 
"Put it on, I'll check on you in 15 minutes". Modern wetsuits don't feature
a zipper on the back anymore, it's simply that the neck opening at the top 
is astoundingly flexible and all you do is tear it apart really wide
and step into the suit from above, feet first. Then, you employ
superhuman strengths to pull it up, above your hips and chest, until only
your head sticks out. As you can imagine, this can take time, until you
get some practice.

<pic images/wetsuit-cement.ps (#3) Black glue to plug wetsuit leaks.>

Along with matching neoprene booties, gloves, and a rented surfboard,
I tried out the cold Pacific waters near Pacifica recently and was surprised
how pleasantly warm this felt while wearing the protective shell. 
I stayed in the water for about half an hour and didn't feel cold 
even for a minute. Truth be told, it turned out there was a small leak
on the back side of the suit, which let in a few drops of icy water
every once in a while, but I patched it up quickly at home with some newly 
aquired wetsuit cement glue (Figure (#3)). The black superglue gets applied
thinly around the perimeters of the leak, and after waiting 10 minutes, you
press the edges together with significant force, which creates a 
water-tight seal. It's no longer leaking now, and this better won't
happen again, after all, the suit was expensive as hell!

@Z: Vacation For Sale

<pic images/vacation.ps Instead of taking vacation, some Americans exchange their leisure days for cash.>

<em>Angelika</em>
If you're like me, you are looking forward to the time off between 
Christmas and New Years, which in Germany is usually a quiet time where
most companies send their employees on vacation. We've mentioned here several
times that the vacation regulations in the U.S. are somewhat antiquated,
as there's no legally enforcible required minimum on
paid vacation for many employees, and it's usually up to the employer on how
many vacation days they grant their workforce in a given year.

That of course doesn't mean that there's no paid vacation. To the contrary,
all reasonably sized companies try to 
attract employees through vacation benefits. In most cases, 
the number of vacation days increases after a few years of employment.
For example, I've been working for the same employer for seven years,
and I now get 21 days of paid vacation per year. Michael has a similar
deal in place. At my employer, however, I can only keep 80 hours
of vacation and then need to take a day off or lose additionally accumulated
vacation time. Yahoo is more generous in this regard. The German system,
however, which guarantees the employee a yearly allotment of vacation days,
which can be carried over from one employer to the next, is completely 
unknown here. After changing jobs, the employee usually starts at 
ten vacation days per year and will only increase this grant
by staying with the same employer for several years.

According to a <LINK>http://www.cepr.net/documents/publications/no-vacation-update-2013-05.pdf|study|Study on vacation days in the U.S.</LINK> published
in May 2013 by the "Center for Economic and Policy Research", one out of
four working Americans don't have paid vacation or holidays. Only 50%
of workers in low-income groups enjoy vacation benefits while 90% of highly
paid employees take them for granted. And only 35% of part time job 
workers are eligible for paid vacation.

On top of that, many companies don't distinguish between sick days and
vacation days, but instead grant their employees "paid time off". In this
case, it doesn't matter whether the employee is absent from work because of
an illness or went on vacation, because in either case the time is 
deducted from their "paid time off" balance. So, if someone is unfortunate
enough to get sick more often than others, their vacation balance shrinks
considerably.

Some companies now came up with the clever idea to adapt vacation benefits 
according to their employee's needs: some want to take vacation more
frequently, while others would rather not take any at all. I'm not sure I 
would opt for the latter option, but it's a choice everyone needs to 
make for themselves. To enable this, some companies allow employees to
sell unused vacation days back to the employer, and find more money in
their paycheck in return, and others, who would prefer longer stretches of
time off, may <LINK>http://www.nydailynews.com/news/national/employers-buy-vacation-days-article-1.1367425|purchase addtional vacation days</LINK>.
Granted, it's still only 10% of employers with vacation benefits
in the U.S. offering this model, but it's very much in line with the
pragmatic American way of life.

@Z: Top Product: Q-Bond Super Glue

<pic images/q-bond.ps The miracle glue Q-Bond with the unique nano particle powder.>

<em>Michael</em>
While I'm talking about commercial glue products, I'd be remiss not to
mention a miracle super glue called "Q-Bond". I stumbled across
it one day while searching for Youtube videos to help me fix a particular
mechanical problem with my car. In this day and age, you can find how-to
videos on just about anything on Youtube, where tinkerers
explain repair steps in detail, be it for replacing the spark plugs or
the brake pads on your car or to pry open an iPhone to exchange the battery.

One of the most famous hobby mechanics on Youtube is 
<LINK>http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hk1cojemglE|Scotty Kilmer</LINK>,
who specializes in fixing up clunker cars, for which it's often
no longer economic to buy spare parts. In one of his videos, he
demonstrates how to repair an old dashboard by glueing a broken-off
plastic part back on.

<pic images/scotty-kilmer.ps Der schreiende Youtube-Mechaniker Scotty Kilmer.>

Using regular super glue for this task would not work if the connecting
surface of the detached part is quite small, because the forces on the
joint are astronomous, and it will break off again if exposed to even
minimal bending force. But with Q-Bond at your disposal, you first
fixate the two parts by sloppily glueing them together (you're welcome
to use Duct Tape (<RBLINK>20030310#3</RBLINK>)) for this task) and then
pour the pepper-like Q-Bond powder onto the line of rupture, until you
get a nice powder hump, and pour a few drops of the liquid Q-Bond
super glue on it.

<pic images/q-bond-wall.ps Ein paar Tropfen Superkleber auf das Q-Bond-Pulver und es ensteht eine beinharte Verbindung.>

During this process, 
the powder turns into a rock-solid material which resembles
a weld seam, sealing the gap between the two once disconnected parts and
firmly locking them in place. The bond becomes so hard that excess glue material
can be trimmed off with a file or sand paper afterwards. During the 
transformation process, 
the infernal glue product emits hazardous fumes, so working outside is
recommended. It glues broken off parts back on really well, and
it's not unusual that two reconnected parts form a more stable
alliance than the original unbroken item. Top product!

@Z: German Coalition Agreement and Dual Citizenship

<pic images/passport.ps Which citizenship would you like? Foto: flickr[Craig James|thewidewideworld/2203253497]>

<em>Angelika</em> 
We've been following the discussions between
representatives of the two major German political parties,
CDU and SPD, who have been addressing the issue of dual citizenship in their
coalition negotiations recently. They finally agreed in their coaltion
contract, that descendants of foreign immigrants in Germany now 
have the right to dual citizenship. This obsoletes the 
so-called "option model", which defined that children born to foreign
parents in Germany needed to decide on or before their 23rd birthday 
on which citizenship they wanted to obtain. Developing this idea further,
many Germans living abroad in the U.S. were hoping to be able to obtain
dual citizenship as well.

But that might have been a short sighted thought, as political talking heads
back home won't gain much publicity by addressing the needs of a 
few folks living abroad.
Current regulations say that if Germans want to become American
citizens, they can keep their German citizenship only if their
previously filed application to keep the German citizenship has been
granted by the German authorities. They need to prove that although living
in the U.S., they are maintaining ties to Germany. A few of our 
aquaintances in San Francisco successfully pushed through the process, but
it's really up to the German authorities to grant or deny the request.

To be fair, there's no U.S. legislation dealing with dual citizenship
either, although rumors to the contrary keep floating through the media. 
There's simply no regulation for naturalized citizens with regards to their 
original passports, and for this reason, it's okay for new
U.S. citizens to keep their original citizenship, as long as it's legal 
in the country of their origin. If you have any doubts, you can read up
on the topic under <LINK>http://travel.state.gov/content/travel/english/legal-considerations/us-citizenship-laws-policies/citizenship-and-dual-nationality/dual-nationality.html|Dual Nationality</LINK> on the
Department of State's official website.

TODO

@Z: Der Ami steht gern Schlange

<pic images/dolores.ps Am Dolores-Park ist eine Eisdiele, vor der die Leute jeden Tag um den Block rum Schlange stehen.>

<em>Michael</em>
Dass Drängeln in Amerika verpöhnt ist und die Leute sich in langen
Einerreihen anstellen, auch wenn, wie an einer Straßen\-bahn\-halte\-stelle,
keine Absperrkordel dies direkt gebietet, ist seit <RBLINK>20110320#9</RBLINK>
bekannt. Auch dass Amerikaner seelenruhig 20 Minuten mit laufendem Motor an der
billigen Costcotankstelle warten, wissen Rundbriefleser seit 2011.
Mittlerweile glaube ich allerdings echt, dass Amerikaner sich oft gerade
deswegen anstellen, <em>weil</em> schon eine lange Schlange von Leuten
auf irgendwas wartet. Wo viele warten, so die Logik, muss es etwas geben,
das so viel besser ist als anderswo, dass man sich gerne hinten anstellt.

So verkauft zum Beispiel bei uns um die Ecke, am Dolores-Park, eine Eisdiele
namens <LINK>http://biritecreamery.com/|"Bi-Rite Creamery"</LINK>
Bolleneis auf Waffeltüten.
Jedes Mal, wenn ich an der Kreuzung
vorbeifahre, warten dort bestimmt 50 Leute vor der Tür, nicht selten windet
sich die Schlange der Wartenden um die Straßenecke auf die Dolores Street. Das
muss man sich mal ausrechnen: Bei der Trantütigkeit, die Amerikaner beim
Auswählen, Ordern, und Bezahlen an den Tag legen, dauert die Abfertigung eines
Kunden bestimmt eine Minute. Das heißt, dass der Letzte in der Schlange fast
eine Stunde warten muss, bis er drankommt! Vielleicht kommt man ja in der
Schlange mit hippen Leuten ins Gespräch, was weiß ich?

Faszinierenderweise regt sich der Amerikaner aber nicht auf, wenn es
mit der Schlange nicht vorwärts geht. Sonst muss immer alles ganz schnell
gehen, kommt der Ober in einem Restaurant nicht gleich angespurtet, ist
der Teufel los. Reiht sich der Amerikaner allerdings freiwillig in eine
Schlange ein, nimmt er Verzögerungen klaglos und mit einer Wurstigkeit
hin, die mich nach 17 Jahren Amerika auf dem Buckel immer noch erstaunt.

<pic images/tartine.ps Die Bäckerei "Tartine" bäckt zwar gutes Brot, aber eine halbe Stunde anstellen würde ich mich dafür nicht.>

<pic images/lining-up-coach.ps Vor dem Outlet-Laden "Coach Factory" warten die Leute geduldig, bis sie ein Türsteher reinlässt.>

Ich kann euch jetzt leider nicht sagen, wie gut das Eis in der
"Bi-Rite Creamery" tatsächlich ist, denn ich würde mir eher einen
spitzen Bleistift ins Auge rammen als mich dort anzustellen. Aber ich
vermute mal: Ganz brauchbar, wie überall in Amerika. Oder nehmt zum
Beispiel die
Bäckerei <LINK>http://www.tartinebakery.com|"Tartine"</LINK>
auf der Guerrero Street, ebenfalls nur ein
paar Straßenblocks von unserer Wohnung entfernt. Eine Schlange von
zwanzig Leuten vor der Theke, die sich bis raus auf die Straße zieht,
ist dort praktisch Standard. Schön, ich gebe zu, die Backwaren schmecken
ausgezeichnet, aber die dänische Andersen-Bäckerei bäckt absolut auf
Augenhöhe, hat mehrere Niederlassungen in San Francisco und Umgebung und
man kommt sofort dran. Und wer dort schon mal ein Mandelhörnchen
verzehrt hat, kann über Tartine nur lachen.

<pic images/lining-up-true-religion.ps Die Jeans von "True Religion" sind so beliebt und so teuer, dass Käufer für 40% Preisnachlass Schlange stehen.>

<pic images/rainbow.ps Ausgerechnet vor dem Ökosupermarkt "Rainbow Groceries" warten Schlangen von Autos mit laufendem Motor.>

Autoschlangen bilden sich in Amerika auch noch aus anderen Gründen: Teilweise
wartet der Amerikaner lieber zehn Minuten im Auto auf einen Parkplatz direkt
vor dem Supermarkt, als um die Ecke zu parken und eine Minute zu Fuß zu laufen.
Ausgerechnet vor dem Ökosupermarkt "Rainbow Groceries" in San Francisco stehen
Samstag nachmittags immer etwa zehn Autos mit eingeschaltetem Blinker auf der
13th-Street, um darauf zu warten, dass der Parkplatzwart der Rainbow-Garage
grünes Licht für ein Fahrzeug gibt, weil ein anderer Ökokunde aus der Garage
ausfährt.  Anscheinend spielt in den klimatisierten Kärren der Wartenden
unglaublich gute Musik oder sie lauschen spannenden Hörbüchern, sodass sie
nicht auf die Idee kommen, einfach um die Ecke zu parken und ein paar Meter zu
laufen. Ist aber vielleicht ganz gut so, denn sonst fände ich ja nichts zum
Parken wenn ich bei Rainbow einkaufe!

Ungeduldige Grüße:

Angelika \& Michael
