San Francisco, 12-25-2014

@Z: Christmas 2014

<pic images/xmas-2014.ps Christmas 2014>

<em>Angelika</em> 
This year, Christmas came around too quickly once again, and you
might groan, "What, another newsletter already? I haven't even read
the last one!" But I don't want to break the tradition of the
Christmas newsletter, and perhaps there will be a little time to read
it over the holidays, between visiting relatives and the Christmas
roast.

TODO

I have long considered which topics would be suitable for this year's
special newsletter, as a lot has happened again in 2014. But I have
wanted to write about maternity leave in the USA for a long time, and
Christmas is particularly fitting for this, as it is not just about
gifts and Christmas trees, but about the birth of a child. The USA is
the only industrialized nation in the world that does not have a
legally regulated paid maternity leave. Although President Clinton
introduced the so-called "Federal Family and Medical Leave Act"
(FMLA) for the USA in 1993, the law only allows employees to take an
unpaid leave of absence for 12 weeks with job protection to care for
a newborn or seriously ill child, to care for a sick spouse, or to
recover from a serious illness themselves.

However, this law is only binding for companies and businesses with
more than 50 employees. There are occasional initiatives to introduce
paid parental leave nationwide in America, but in recent years, there
hasn't been much progress. When it comes to social benefits, living
here sometimes feels like living in the Middle Ages. As is often the
case in the USA, some states grew tired of waiting for Washington and
have enacted more generous parental leave regulations. For example,
many states have lowered the 50-employee threshold or allow for
longer unpaid leave. In about a handful of states, there are
provisions that allow for partially paid maternity leave or parental
leave. It's rather a poor showing for 50 states.

Anyone who becomes pregnant and lives in California can consider
themselves fortunate, as the state of California offers one of the
most comprehensive protections. Pregnant women can take advantage of
payments from California's Short Term Disability Insurance. Although
they receive only about 55% of their salary, women can typically
receive these payments for 4 weeks before the birth and 6 weeks after
the birth in the case of a normal pregnancy, provided they have paid
into the insurance, which is mandatory in California if one is
employed. Every Californian employee contributes a percentage of
their salary to the insurance. The amount is automatically deducted
each time there is a paycheck and was 1% of the gross salary in 2014.

The same insurance also funds the so-called "Paid Family Leave" in
California, which has existed since 2004. It provides 55% of the
salary for six weeks (up to a certain maximum amount, which is
currently around $1,000 per week in California) from the state of
California, to stay at home with the baby after birth or to care for
seriously ill family members. Both fathers and mothers (including
same-sex parents or adoptive parents) are entitled to the six weeks.
Both parents can take the six weeks together or separately. The
parents do not need to take the six weeks consecutively. However,
California grants the paid six weeks only once every 12 months, which
means that a Californian who has taken time off to care for a newborn
cannot take time off again within this period, for example, to care
for another family member.

The biggest disadvantage of this program is that it does not include
a job security clause. However, those who work at large companies
like Yahoo, Google, Facebook, and so on, can be sure that these
companies offer good conditions (by American standards) regarding
parental leave. At Google, mothers receive 5 months of paid maternity
leave, at Yahoo each parent gets 8 weeks paid, and the mother can
stay at home for 16 weeks at full salary after giving birth, with job
security.

In contrast, I wouldn't receive anything from my employer and would
have to rely on the aforementioned programs from California. And
that's exactly the problem when there are no uniform nationwide laws.
It would be fair if everyone, regardless of which state they live in
or which company they work for, could take parental leave.

In this spirit, we wish you all a Merry Christmas.

The translation of "Angelika & Michael" to English is "Angelika &
Michael," as these are proper names and typically do not change when
translated between languages.

