San Francisco, 04-27-2015

@Z: Chaos in Dolores Park

<pic images/dp-total.ps A pretty normal Sunday afternoon in Dolores Park.>

<em>Angelika</em>
Around the corner from our home is a popular San Francisco recreational
area called Dolores Park. Mainly people from the surrounding neighborhoods, 
like Noe Valley, Castro and the Mission are hanging out there on the weekends.

Dolores Park fills up quickly on the weekends, and until recently, the
crowds were very considerate, kids were playing on the playground, friends met
for a picnic, ripped guys from Castro's gay scene sun-bathed in tiny
swimming suits, Mexicans from the nearby Mission district played soccer on the
lawn, dog lovers walked their dogs, and tennis fans played their matches
on the adajacent courts, fantastic views of the skyline of downtown 
San Francisco included.

<pic images/dp-dogs.ps Pretty average people in San Francisco.>

As a long-standing tradition, park officials have always looked the 
other way when they saw park visitors drinking alcohol or letting their dogs
run off leash, both of which is clearly against the prominently 
posted park rules. Since everyone got along just fine, nobody said
anything. But lately the park has turned into some kind of Carnival in Rio
fest. Loud music is pumping from various speakers hauled in by
the party people, who get totally wasted and then unabashedly urinate
into the bushes or nearby neighbors' driveways. Marihuana is consumed
in all imaginable ways, but that is also a long-standing tradition in
Dolores Park. Come Monday morning, the park is littered with trash, because
apparently none of the party people is capable of bringing a plastic bag,
collect their trash and put it into or at least next to one of the 
provided garbage bins.

<pic images/dp-pee.ps Nearby neighbors have been complaining about people publically urinating in Dolores park.>

The city workers assigned to tend to the greenery in the park are instead
occupied all Monday to collect the strewed out trash. Nearby neighbors in
their expensive houses are getting upset and have been pressuring 
the city to maintain
law and order. As of recently, park violations are actually being ticketed 
by the park officials. I'm not sure if that's going to help, though. It'd
probably more effective if violators would instead be convicted 
to join a community service clean-up task force. But who's listening to me!
One directly related problem is definitely that due to the recent boom 
in building ugly multi-story appartment buildings in the nearby 
neighborhoods, the park gets filled up beyond capacity on the weekends, 
because those newly moved in residents want to enjoy the greenery.

<pic images/dp-sign.ps Park rules no one cares about.>

What makes things worse is that one half of the park is currently closed
for a big renovation project. And California is in a drought, so during
the winter we've had much sunnier weather than usual, which is when
people frequent nearby parks more often. 
Some old-timers claim that we're in this pickle because of droves of 
nouveau-riche Silicon Valley workers, cashing in big down south and living
in the city, thinking they own the world and don't have to abide by any
rules. I'm not sure this is 100% true. If you look at the park's history, 
it has been through a lot of interesting times. Way back, the Ohlone Indians
lived on the land, then came the Spanish missionaries and cattle farmers.
Between 1861 and 1894 there was a Jewish cemetery on the premises, and after
the big quake in 1906, the city erected baracks there to provide a living 
space for the people who became homeless in the quake's aftermath. 
We hope that residents figure out eventually how to get along with each
other and the park stays here for a long time to come.

@Z: Overpriced Mickey Mouse Beers

<pic images/beer-rogue.ps Twelve Dollars for 4 pints of beer? Only in America.>

<em>Michael</em>
The history of beer brewing in the United States can be divided up into three
distinct periods. Until about 1985, we had the watery age, when all across
the country all one could find was the thin, tasteless beer made by the 
major brewing companies. Joe Schmoe washed down Budweiser or Coors, while 
European tourists and a few local demanding customers ordered Mexican or
Dutch imports like Corona or Heineken. Then, towards the end of the 80ies, 
a major movement started, and a few rebellious young entrepeneurs began
disrupting the beer market by producing so-called microbrews. Tiny breweries,
run by dedicated hobbyists, put a lot of love and effort into 
crafting their own beers, and started selling them to 
their enthusiastic followers.

<pic images/beer-coronado.ps To each his own: Pumpkin beer sold at 5.79 Dollars per bottle.>

Nowadays, every truck stop sells microbrew beer, and in San Francisco, 
you'd be hard pressed to order Budweiser without being pointed and 
laughed at, except maybe in sports bars. The fight's been fought now,
and the microbrews won, but it has been dragging on for several decades 
to get to this point. One of the major obstacles is the alcohol distribution
system in the United States, which has been strictly regulated by the
government since prohibition times. Until today, it's pretty tough for 
small breweries to get their brews on supermarket shelves. Why? 
Distributing alcohol at a wholesale level in the U.S. requires a state license
only granted to big distributors, who of course
scoff at small mom and pop brewers
producing a few thousand gallons a year, when they can much more efficiently 
move hundreds of millions of gallons sold by one of the large-scale industrial
brewing companies. The documentary 
<LINK>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Beer_Wars|Beer Wars</LINK>
sheds some light behind the scenes of big beer business and illustrates
some of the disastrous implications this has for innovators in the 
brewing business.

<pic images/beer-chimay.ps Always been a bit on the expensive side: Beer from Belgium.>

But it's no secret that Americans never stop improving, and sometimes
they even go over the top, up to the point where you ask yourself if that
was really such a smart idea. The German beer purity law is naturally
unknown here and left to their own devices, some breweries cook up 
the craziest combinations that no one in their right mind can enjoy 
anymore. 

For example, whenever we're on vacation in Hawaii, I enjoy the beer made by
the local "Kona" brewery, which, similiarily to the well-known
<LINK>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gordon_Biersch_Brewing_Company|Gordon Biersch Brewing Company</LINK>, 
composes simple classic but very well-crafted beers. But I almost fell
out of my chair last time we were there, when in a super saver package
from Costco, I opened a sixpack of a variety called "Koko Brown" which
tasted so absurdly of coconut that I couldn't get down more than one sip,
poured the rest of the bottle into the sink and left the remaining five
bottles for the next tenant at the vacation home.

<pic images/beer-new-belgium.ps Craft beer on sale for 6.89 Dollars per bottle.>

As you might know, German vintners love to belittle the products of 
American wineries, calling
them <LINK>http://www.stern.de/wirtschaft/news/handel-winzer-fuerchten-coca-cola-weine-550941.html|"Coca Cola Wines"</LINK>, because they're produced under
less strict food and drink regulations than in Germany, giving American
vintners the advantage of being able to explore all kinds of
artificial taste enhancement methods. For example, every vineyard in 
Napa Valley uses wooden pallets of different flavors, strewn into the barrels
to build out heavy red wines. That would be illegal in Germany!
Along the same lines, some of the new hipster
beers are enriched with elderberries, grapefruit, pumpkin flavor, and
all kinds of artificial secret ingredients thought up 
by trendy American breweries.
Those beers create such a complex taste sensation
that I guess their primary purpose is not to
wash down food, but maybe are meant to be sampled
like at a wine tasting, with 
cheese and crackers on the side? What's worse is that a liter bottle of
these Mickey Mouse Beers often costs 10 Dollars or more. Predictably,
lots of fancy restaurants in the Bay Area got that greedy look 
in their eyes, because they could now all of a sudden 
put a pint of beer for 15 Dollars on the menu!
But count me out, please. I have no intention of participating in disrupting
the well-established beer culture, only to fall into the same 
hyperinflation grooves as the wine culture did 20 years ago. Pass!

<pic images/pint-glass.ps (#3) The typical American pint glass measures about 0.47 liters and has to be filled all the way up to the rim.>

About 20 years ago, pubs were selling an American pint (about 0.47 liters) 
of beer for about $3, today it's more like $6. Traditional American
pint classes (Figure (#3)) don't feature a calibration mark, but are 
supposed to be filled all the way to the rim, so that it's often hard
to lift a full glass of beer off the counter without making a mess.
But since in many places foamless ales have given way to foamy brews, a
glass might contain less fluid than you think it does. What's worse is that
restaurants have been jacking up the beer prices lately. After finding
out that no one complained when they increased the price for a glass
of wine from $6, to $10, and even $20 for top-shelve wines, in recent years
they have been performing the same trick in beer sales. The other day
I was rubbing my eyes in disbelief when the waiter in my favorite restaurant
"Chow" set down a glass of beer for $4.50 in front of me that was only
a half pint in size. That didn't fly well with me, my friends!
But it turned out that they still serve full pints if you ask.

@Z: San Francisco Neighborhoods: Dogpatch and Pier 70

<pic images/dogpatch-cat.ps Old abandoned factory buildings are dominating the landscape in the Dogpatch neighborhood in San Francisco.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
As at every tourist destination, visitors to San Francisco love to check
off the usual sightseeing highlights: Golden Gate Bridge, the cable car,
Alcatraz, Alamo Square with its neat Victorian houses and of course
Fisherman's Wharf, which locals avoid like the plague. There's many 
places listed in the popular tourist guides which are actually worth visiting,
of course, but the city also offers many hidden gems, unexplicably 
neglected by both tourists and locals alike, although I'd consider them
part of the heart and soul of San Francisco. One of these places is 
the Dogpatch neighborhood, located in the eastern part of town, adjacent
to the Bay and between Mariposa and Cesar Chavez Street.

<pic images/dogpatch-piccino.ps Trendy new restaurants like "Piccino" offer tasty food and exquisit wines.>

As an well-established part of San Francisco history, the Dogpatch 
neighborhood has gone through stunning developments over the years. 
You can find some of San Francisco's oldest buildings there, thanks to the
fact that neither the 1906 earthquake nor the following fire blaze 
caused any harm there. 

For many years, the Dogpatch neighborhood used to be a working
class neighborhood with a high percentage of European immigrants, making
a living by working
at the surrounding factories and the shipyard at Pier 70. The municipal 
company PG\&E, sole provider of gas and electricy in San Francisco, opened
a factory building there as far back as 1852. Around 1990 hower, 
the landscape started
to change with the dot com boom. Working class families were 
driven out due to increasing rents, and the upper middleclass started to
move into the beautiful old tiny houses, thanks to which San Francisco is 
such a charming city.

The newly opened streetcar T Line which runs through the neighborhood
also brought noticable changes. And only a few blocks away, the Mission
Bay neighborhood has also been going through drastic changes, as the
renowned UCSF hospital erected an entirely new research complex there with
numerous buildings. Not all changes are bad, however, as many 
great new restaurants can attest to, as well as signature stores that are 
unique to San Francisco, like the bag shop 
<LINK>http://www.rickshawbags.com|"Rigshaw Bagworks"</LINK>
or <LINK>http://pocodolce.com|"Poco Dolce"</LINK> which offers an
exquisit selection of fine confectionery and chocolate.

<pic images/dogpatch-butchery.ps Young entrepeneurs like this specialty butcher shop try out new concepts in the neighborhood..> 

Around the corner is a hip butcher shop, 
<LINK>http://www.oliviersbutchery.com|"Olivier’s Butchery"</LINK>,
which is a rarity in the U.S, because most people buy their meat 
shrinkwrapped at the supermarket. 
Another interesting venture is 
<LINK>http://workshopresidence.com|"The Workshop Residence"</LINK>,
where artists get the opportunity to collaborate with local companies
to create and sell unique products.

<pic images/dogpatch-saloon-bar.ps The Dogpatch Saloon is a popular waterhole for thirsty locals.>

<pic images/dogpatch-crane.ps Some of the abandoned buildings look like they're from the movie "Plant of the Apes".>

If you're interested in getting a whiff of how the Dogpatch was like
in the olden days, go to the 
<LINK>http://dogpatchsaloon.com|Dogpatch Saloon</LINK>
which has been serving as the local watering hole all the way back
since 1912. And don't miss out on the adjacent truly unique Pier 70 
area, where abandoned factory buildings hint on how this area looked like
100 years ago. It's a treasure trove for every photographer and history buff,
and I love to stroll through the streets and imagine what life was like
back then.

<pic images/dogpatch-model-solo.ps Professional photographers like to place their models in front of scruffy abandoned factory buildings.>

Pier 70 hasn't been entirely abandoned, by the way, as the old shipyard
is still in the business of repairing vessels and the
<LINK>http://www.noonanbuildingartists.com|Noonan Building</LINK>
is home to various local artists. But the bulldozers are already lined up
waiting to turn the area into a bustling business and appartment district
in 2017, allegedly by integrating some of the historic buildings into the
newly shaped landscape. I recommend you take a last look at the area
right now, as newly constructed buildings in San Francisco tend to be 
boring and architecturally uninspired these days.

@Z: Expensive Eggs

<pic images/eggs-rainbow.ps Half a dozen eggs from happy hens cost a whopping five Dollars.>

<em>Michael</em>
Americans only know about fried eggs for breakfast, it's not widely known 
to simply scoop egg yolk out a soft-boiled egg directly from the shell. 
One of the reasons for that is that
the major U.S. chicken farms have been struggling for decades 
with salmonella bacteria contamination, to the point where they've 
actually given up on battling it. That's why Americans get nervous
immediately when they eye chicken products not cooked to the point
where no live organism could potentially have survived.

If they find even a tiny bit of chicken meat that's slightly undercooked,
American consumers switch immediately to Defcon 5 and throw it all out.
Supermarkets in the U.S. sell eggs off refrigerated displays, whereas
in Germany they're they're sitting on regular shelves. Fried eggs 
are often ordered "over easy", with the yoke already semi solid. Real
sunny side up eggs are often eyed with suspicion and only the
very brave consume dishes requiring raw eggs, like the Italian dessert 
"Tiramisu".

<pic images/eggs-trader-joes.ps This allegedly organic dozen of eggs is only three Dollars, but occasionally tastes of chicken coop.>

I don't know if we have extraordinarily resilient stomachs or were
lucky enough to never be exposed to a virus, but we've never had any
issues with undercooked eggs although we enjoy all kinds of food 
containing them. And we love Tiramisu of course! But what is definitely 
noticable is the egg quality if breakfast eggs are boiled in the shell
as opposed to frying them in the pan. Organic eggs from the Aldi-owned
chain store Trader Joes, for example, occasionally taste like someone
has left open the door to the pig sty. If you, like me, have spent time
as a kid on rural farms, you know what I'm talking about. The taste 
varies by season, too, every once in a while I've gotten a batch of
pretty good tasting eggs from Trader Joes as well.

I've recently discovered that "Whole Foods", the organic hipster market 
around the corner, carries a selection of eggs from free range hens at
an exorbitant price, but they consistently meet my expectations.
At about 5 Dollars per half-dozen, they cost about three times as much as
other alleged organic products, but since we only eat eggs for
breakfast maybe twice a week, so price isn't the driving factor here.
The half-dozen "Rainbow" egg pack (as far as I know they're not related
to the great "Rainbow Groceries" market) also represents typical 
San Francisco diversity: All eggs are slightly different in color,
some of them even have a greenish hue, but as far as I know, the Easter
Bunny had nothing to do with it.

<pic images/rainbow-groceries-eggs.ps The Rainbow Groceries market sells even better eggs from even happier hens at 10 Dollars a dozen.>

Speaking of "Rainbow Groceries": Recently, I've found equally expensive
eggs there. The dozen went for $9.75 and I thought, life is short, let's
do it! They tasted really good. Also, it's a good idea to support 
Rainbow Groceries. Apparently, the rampant commercial success of the 
Whole Foods chain is eating into their revenue, and I'd rather see
them survive here in the city until and beyond the day I retire. They're 
the real deal, on their parking lot you see authentic hippies still
driving up in their 30-year-old Volvos, while at Whole Foods there's always 
the same lame Google nerds and their Yoga girls.

@Z: Top Product: Luggage Scale

<pic images/luggage-scale.ps (#1) Clever luggage scale with suitcase-hoisting belt.>

<em>Michael</em>
You might have noticed that airlines nowadays seem to keep inventing
new sketchy schemes to get their hands on your hard-earned dollars.
Most are charging an extra $20 for each piece of checked in 
luggage one-way now, with the 
notable exception of Southwest Airlines. If you have to pay, make sure your
bags never clock in at more than 50 pounds (23 kg), because it
gets really expensive otherwise! Some airlines, like Lufhansa, even 
weigh your carry-on luggage to make sure it's not over 17 pounds (8kg).
At home, there's an easy trick to make sure your luggage doesn't 
exceed the limits by stepping onto the bathroom scale with your 
luggage first, then without, and then calculate the difference. 

But when traveling back home, while still at the hotel room at the travel
destination, there's usually no bathroom scale you can use to weigh your bags,
and that's why we always bring along the handy digital luggage scale in Figure
(#1). With its ergonomically shaped handle, I have no trouble lifting even the
heaviest luggage pieces. And the kicker is the little grey belt at the bottom,
which comes with a metal buckle at then end that lets you securely fasten it
around any common suitcase handle. For quite some time, we had put up with a
different, inferior luggage scale by another manufacturer, featuring a beltness
metal hook which failed to hold onto anything securely, which meant that I had
to always bring along a set of climbing carabiners, which clocked in at half a
pound by themselves! 

The luggage scale comes under a few different labels, ours is branded
"Tarriss", but on amazon.de, I've even seen it under the "Söhnle" name.
I suspect it comes from the same Chinese factory anyway, and retailers
simply print their names on it. It is built with impeccable quality and
precision, and according to our experience matches the airline's scales
to the pound. It is lightweight and costs about 15 Dollars.

Oh, and in case you just wanted to give me the snotty
"I fly business class and I don't care about luggage weight" response, 
here's my take on it: Regardless whether you're just using up airline miles,
it's a colossal waste of money to fly Business class! And if you're 
using business travel miles your company paid for on your private travels,
it's a shame that this doesn't count as taxable income! Where's Obama
for useful initiatives when you need him?

@Z: Netflix Binge Watching 

<pic images/netflix-banner.ps Many people use their Netflix subscription to watch endlessly.>

<em>Angelika</em> Netflix (<RBLINK>20101219#3</RBLINK>) has expanded into
the German market recently, and we're curious how well they'll fare over
there. Michael has his doubts whether catering to German consumers will 
be profitable, but we'll see about that. Here in the U.S., watching
Netflix is as common as sending email or make a call on a cell phone. 
If you ask your colleagues about what they did last weekend, there's
a good chance they'll say "Watching Netflix".

It might seem like Netflix has been around forever, and the California 
company has existed since 1997, but its streaming service only came
online in 2007. They've radically changed the TV habits in the U.S., 
and since they often put entire seasons of popular shows online, 
many people watch them all in one long marathon session
(aka "binge watching"), because
they're all included in the monthly $7.99 flat fee.

<pic images/netflix-overview.ps The Netflix subscription service includes complete seasons of popular TV shows.>

I've even experienced this myself a couple of times. After watching the
first episode of a season, sometimes you just want to know what's coming
next, and keep watching, simply because it's already available and
there's no need to wait till next week for the next episode to air.
Rumor has it that Netflix is working on aquiring old and new episodes of the
famous German TV show "Tatort", but has not been successful yet at doing so. 
Should they complete this transaction one day, however, I'd have to
take several years off of work, as I'm a big fan of the show and wouldn't
stop until I had watched all of them.

@Z: American Lifestyle: Give Me a Break

<pic images/no-dogs-allowed.ps California law prohibits dogs in restaurants und grocery stores.>

<em>Michael</em>
Every time when I return to the U.S. from a short trip to Germany, I realize 
there's a lot of subtle cultural differences between the two countries. In
this new series, I'm going to take a closer look at them.

"Give me a break" is what Americans say when they're double parked with
their emergency lights blinking in a narrow road and traffic starts to
jam behind them. And the drivers stuck in traffic all agree that the poor
chap blocking the road must be doing so because he wasn't able to find
parking and it'd be unreasonable to park around the corner and walk 
for 30 seconds. Let's give that guy a break! Or when someone is looking for
a parking spot, it's okay to do so at 5mph in a 25mph zone, with caravans
of drivers following them without getting upset!

As another example, it's illegal in California to bring dogs onto
business premises where food items are sold. 
The only exception are guide dogs for the blind.
But if you go to Costco on 10th and Bryant St. in San Francisco, for example,
you'll often see people with
dogs in the store. In Germany, the dog owners would face outraged customers,
calling them out on their disgressions like "Excuse me, that's not allowed!",
but in the U.S., I've never seen anyone say anything, except some fellow 
dog lover maybe exclaiming "Oh, that's such a cutie! Is this a 
St. Bernard or a swiss mountain dog?". 
Restaurants in San Francisco, on the other hand, always seem to enforce the 
law, and many times I've seen waiters relegate people with dogs in no 
uncertain words to outside seating where it's legal to bring a dog. 
I presume that's because the restaurant's owner would lose their license 
if the health department found out that they are breaking the law 
by tolerating dogs inside.

Or take the dogs-on-leash-only laws on many beaches and in many parks across
California. They're widely ignored by many dog owners, who consider it
ridiculous government overreach that can safely be ignored. Who in their
right mind would deprive little Fido of chasing after some endangered birds?
In the rare case that a park ranger shows up and points out the various
signs requiring dogs to be on leash, it always seems to help them 
to sheepishly claim to somehow not having caught a glimpse of any of them.

Or if you're driving your car through the streets of San Francisco at night and
suddenly are forced to slam on the brakes because some completely spaced-out
homeless guy is taking his sweet time crossing the road on a red light, you
might be inclined to sound your horn in an advisory manner.  Not so in
California, where drivers simply slow down and avoid any possible altercation.
They value their personal safety more than upholding law and order. If you know
me, however, you've correctly guessed that I think entirely differently
about this matter! 

This couldnt-care-less attitude varies widely between regions in the U.S., and
some of the most extreme proponents are the Hawaiians, who often have no idea
what their car's horn even sounds like. If you make the mistake of sounding the
horn for any reason whatsoever anywhere on Hawaii, the natives will look at you
in complete disdain. I've also found that in most parts of the States, people
tend to react in surprisingly irate ways to advisory honking. It's not uncommon
that an innocent honk signal leads to a heated verbal exchange with obscene
hand gestures, sometimes even followed by a lethal shootout. But someone has to
take a stand, and I keep honking as I deem appropriate. Except when I'm on
vacation on Hawaii, of course.

@Z: San Franciscos New Area Code

<pic images/415-site.ps At 415clothing.com, lovers of the old 415 area code can order items from their favorite clothing line.>

<em>Angelika</em> I've always had the impression that the American telephone system 
has evolved in a piecemeal fashion over the decades, or why is it again that you have to
dial 1 before the actual area code? As in Germany, citizens identify 
themselves with the area code of the city they live in. And in San Francisco,
you can even see people wearing
<LINK>http://www.415clothing.com|t-shirts imprinted with the 415 logo</LINK>!

You guessed it, 415 has always been San Francisco's area code. But as the city
population has kept increasing over the years, eventually the network ran out of 7 digit
local phone numbers, and that's why we received a second area code in February
2015. Every newly assigned phone number will now come with a 628 prefix. Old numbers
are here to stay, and this is why our telephone number still starts with 415. But
as an inconvenience, we now have to dial 1 and 415 if we want to call another 415
number on a landline! Until recently, dialing 1 and the area code was only required if we
wanted to call a different city, while we could simply dial the local
7 digit number while staying within city limits. What a mess!

<pic images/ha-415.ps Even bikers proudly display San Francisco's "415" area code. Foto: flickr[Todd Lappin|telstar/4271127530]>

There's a funny
<LINK>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Maid_%28Seinfeld%29|Seinfeld episode</LINK>
where Elaine needs to switch phone numbers in New York City and
gets a new area code assigned. It's a devastating blow to the New York City
native, when her acquaintances start snubbing her because 
they don't recognize she's actually living in Manhattan!

@Z: Roaring Motocycles

<pic images/motobike-cops.ps Police motocycles are pretty noisy as well.>

<em>Michael</em>Aside from getting your car's smog test done, in the U.S. it's
not required to have your motor vehicle inspected by a certified testing center
every two years, like in Germany. You can imagine that for this reason it's not
uncommon to see clunker cars swooshing down the freeways that make you wonder
how long they're still going to last before falling apart.  It's quite common
to see cars with only one headlight at night, or with two headlights that point
in opposite directions, one straight up in the sky, or bouncing off the
rearview mirror of the car in front of them, blinding the driver.  And while
there is regulation on how many decibels of noise a motor vehicle can produce,
no official authority ever enforces or even measures that value.
Unsurprisingly, many roaring cars and sputtering motocycles are roaming the
streets.

Traffic cops don't even carry devices to measure the noise level.
They blissfully ignore the hooligans who think it's a great idea 
to start their Harley bozo bikes at 2 a.m. in the morning when the 
bars are closing and can then be heard for miles 
sputtering through the residential neighborhoods
to the sound of a battery of car alarms going off. After all, it
could be one of their off duty colleagues having the time of their life!

Similarly, drivers of so-called muscle cars seem to enjoy to hear their
engines blare, and I often feel sorry for them and the metallic clang
their American-made high-octane engines emit. It almost sounds like their
pistons aren't correctly adjusted and will soon get tangled up and
quickly whipped into the shape of some form of modern metal sculpture.

On the other hand, if a traffic cop hears someone revving their engine
at the traffic light and sees them letting their wheels squeal on 
takeoff, I've heard reports of drivers being pulled over and being
ticketed or even arrested on the charge of an "exhibition of speed" 
violation, which is expensive!

<pic images/ggt-donuts.ps Youtube video showing hooligans doing donuts on Golden Gate bridge.>

California traffic law lays out in section 23103 of the 
Vehicle Code that drivers who endanger others, regardless if
on the freeway or within the confines of a parking structure, will
face a "reckless driving" charge. On top of that, it explicitly prohibits
street racing on the freeways in section 23109.
If law enforcement finds out about an illegal speed contest and the 
district attorney pushes for prosecution, then the drivers and even
mere bystanders face charges of up to several days in county jail!

TODO

Allerdings scheint sich kaum jemand um die Vorschriften zu scheren, wie das 
<LINK>https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ksaT-qrAmOk|Youtube-Video eines Donut-drehenden Camaro auf der Golden Gate Bridge|Rauchende Reifen auf der Golden Gate Bridge</LINK> zeigt. Organisierte Straßenrennen mit aufgemotzten
Autos sind gang und gäbe in Kalifornien. Wir fahren übrigens zwei
Autos, die die Motorfreunde besonders gern klauen und frisieren, und 
nicht umsonst stehen beide Modelle auf der Top-10-Liste der 
meistgestohlenden Autos Amerikas. Wie ihr wisst, wurde unser 24 Jahre
alter Perly Perlman schon mal von Halbstarken gestohlen 
(<RBLINK>20120305#1</RBLINK>), und seit dem parken wir ihn nicht mehr
auf der Straße, sondern nur noch in der Garage!

Grüße aus dem Land der Gesetzlosen:

Angelika \& Michael
