San Francisco, 08-16-2015

@Z: At the Mercy of America's Broken Health Care System

<pic images/er-waiting-room.ps A homeless person lies down on the chairs in the emergency room's waiting area.>

<em>Angelika</em>
Michael has always 
been playing soccer with a passion, ever since he was a little
kid. Here in San Francisco, he's been in a pickup game every Tuesday
for many years, and he religiously sticks to his routine, rain or shine. 
One Tuesday in June this year, however, he came home early from a game,
cursing like a sailor. Als always, he had given his last in the game,
but had tripped and fallen hard on his shoulder. Michael knew right
away that his collar bone was fractured from experience, as many years
ago he'd injured this delicate bone on the opposite side during Judo 
training. So we called our primary care physician the next day, who
told us to get it x-rayed and that we should drive to the emergency room
for that.

We usually try to avoid visits to the emergency room at all cost, because
we know from experience that the waiting times there are unbearably long, and
there's total chaos because you share the area with all the crazies, 
the wretched and the huddled masses of the City of San Francisco. It's
quite interesting to hang out there for social studies, but if you're not
doing so well yourself it gets old very quickly. Under Obamacare, patients
are supposed to limit emergency room visits to real emergencies, which
was supposed to reduce their workload significantly, because previously 
the ER was the only to-go place for people without health insurance as
no regular doctor would see them.

<pic images/arm-sling.ps The hardest problem with the broken collar bone was eating ramen soup while holding the chop sticks in my left hand.>

But Obamacare actually had the opposite effect. There's a severe shortage
of primary care physicians in the United States, estimates run from about
20,000 additional doctors needed until the end of 2020. Now, with the 
increasing number of people having access to
health insurance, the situation is getting
worse because those newly insured need additional doctors. It's not 
uncommon nowadays having to wait 4-6 weeks for a doctor's 
appointment, which is unacceptable if you have an urgent health problem, even
if it's not life-threatening. Because of this dire situation, patients
are heading in droves to the emergency rooms once again. 
On top of that, many states have extended their "Medicaid" social medicine
program under Obamacare. It provides health benefits to people in the
lowest income categories. But many doctors simply refuse to see 
Medicaid patients, because the rates covered by the Medicaid insurance 
are significantly lower than the rates paid by regular insurance companies,
and low-income patients have no choice but to head to the nearest 
emergency room once again.

<pic images/er-bill-1.ps First part of the ER bill: 1,900 Dollars.>

But back to Michael: Spread all across the city of San Francisco, 
there's a number of emergency rooms, and if a patient is still able to get
there without an ambulance, they need to decide on which one to head for. A few
of those ERs take appointments, that's helpful for patients who aren't
already on their last legs. But if you think about it, the idea is
quite absurd, as the concepts of "appointment" and "emergency" don't really
fit well together. We picked an ER in the Castro district, because
it's located in a relatively calm neighborhood 
and it's only 10-15 minutes driving distance by car from our place.

Since Michael didn't have a life-threatening condition, we had to wait
more than an hour until finally someone took pity on us and made the x-ray. 
While we were waiting, two emergency patients were dropped off by 
ambulances, and a homeless person made herself comfortable on the chairs
next to us in the waiting area. She had all of her possessions with her,
and lied down to sleep, stretching out over three adjacent chairs. 
After a while, ER staff called security and it turned out that the woman
needed a place to sleep in a homeless shelter. The security folks promised
to make the necessary calls to help her out. Apparently, this kind of
thing happens quite frequently.

Then the door flew open, in walked a loudly moaning woman, 
and another security guard started
to worry and asked what was going on. The woman quickly started
to chit-chat with him and all of a sudden completely forgot about the moaning.
Four young girls visiting from the UK were all buzzing around the
waiting area, all of them chipper and 
in apparently perfectly healthy condition. The
ER doctor didn't seem to be amused. A nurse kept complaining loudly on the phone
about a doctor who had treated him badly. This went on and on until it
was finally Michael's turn, he got his x-ray taken, and minutes later
the doctor released him with the hardly surprising news that his collar
bone was broken.
Since a fractured clavicle usually needs to heal by itself, Michael 
simply received an arm sling which we could have just as well bought at any
pharmacy. Further, he got a referral to an orthopedic doctor for
follow-up and was offered a pain killer pill, which he declined to take
by mouth right away but kept just in case. Weeks later, the first
bill came in the mail, followed by a second one a few days later.

<pic images/er-bill-2.ps Second part of the ER bill: 1,400 Dollars.>

Surprise: For the generic Ibuprofen pill, the ER had charged our 
health insurance a whopping $19.41, but of course you need to consider
that they had an entire team of doctors available ready to squeeze Michael
through a CT scanner in an emergency. The total ER bill turned out to
$3.306,41, as you can see in Figures 3 and 4. That's the amount that
an unsuspecting tourist would have had to pay. But since the ER participates
in our health insurer's network, the two parties have agreed on 
fixed rates for medical procedures, and the health insurance "only"
had to pay $1,883.35. We had to chip in $75 as ER co-pay and another 
$300 deductible which our health plan required. In comparison: For 
the follow-up visit at the orthopedic specialist, including another set
of x-rays, the health insurance only had to pay $177.24, and we forked over
$30 in co-pay. You can easily see that it would have been much more cost 
effective for the health insurance if we had gone to the orthopedic
specialist first, but there were no appointments available. In fact, 
when Michael got the ER's referral, he called the orthopedic doctor's 
office and the receptionist told him that the next available 
appointment was in four weeks. When he asked about other doctors in the
same office, the receptionist found a less popular one that had an 
appointment available only a week later.

Stimulated by the ailing state of the American health care system, 
innovators have come up with capitalist and technical solutions to 
alleviate the situation. Popular are so-called boutique or concierge 
doctors. Patients who are willing to sign up for a yearly, monthly, or
three-monthly fee can enjoy improved services, like same-day 
appointments, even on Saturdays, a shorter wait at the doctor's office,
and more time with the doctor. Doctors who switch to this model are
seeing fewer patients and can focus better on individual cases.

<pic images/one-medical.ps Concierge medicine: Offices of One Medical around in our neighborhood.>

There's many different cost models to choose from. In some, the patient 
buys the aforementioned conveniences, but claims resulting from visits
at doctor's office or lab tests are charged to the patient's health 
insurance. Another model charges a higher fee, but covers additional 
services, like seeing a doctor or preventive screenings. Other expenses
like immunisations or x-rays are the patient's responsibility. 
Membership fees range from $150 to $5,000 per year.

The concierge medicine provider
<LINK>http://www.onemedical.com/sf/doctors|"One Medical Group"</LINK>
is currently spreading across San Francisco, with one of their offices 
being located just around the corner from our house. 
Critics of this new approach rightfully 
object that concierge medicine splits patients into first and second
class citizens, since not everyone can afford paying the hefty
yearly fees. And, what's worse, participating doctors accept fewer patients,
exacerbating the effects of the current doctors shortage even further.

Lately, a new trend is making big strides. So-called telemedicine 
uses video conferences,
available today on a wide variety of smart phones and tablets to a broad
audience. With the 
<LINK>http://www.doctorondemand.com|"Doctor on Demand"</LINK>
app downloaded onto their device, patients can enter a video conference
with a doctor who is certified to practice in the state the patient
resides in. Not having to drive to a doctor's office or wait for days
until the next available appointment can be quite advantageous. 

<pic images/doctors-on-demand.ps A patient converses with a "doctor on demand" using a video app.>

Patients simply type in their symptons, along with potential allergies and
regularly taken medication, after which they're connected straight
with a doctor. Participating doctors are typical primary care physicians
handling the usual minor illnesses like the flu, severe head colds,
diarrhea, rashes). They're not allowed to treat serious diseases, for
these the patient has to visit a doctor's office in person.
The video doctors will write prescriptions, though.
The fixed price for a virtual session with a doctor is $40. Since
this is significantly less expensive than a traditional office visit, 
one of the major U.S. healthcare providers, United Healthcare, has added
the service to their coverage plan. 

Even sessions with psychologists are available on "Doctor on Demand". 
The advantage of this kind of interaction with a doctor is of course
that the patient won't have to sit in a waiting room with other sick
people, and will get an appointment right away without having to 
actually drive to the office location. Disadvantages are that the doctor
can't examine the patient thoroughly because of the lack of physical 
contact, and that the personal relationship with the doctor suffers.
"Doctor on Demand" is a San Francisco company, by the way. But we're 
still devoted to our good old primary care physician of 20 years and 
will dutifully drive to his office whenever we need him.

@Z: Top Product: The Foldable Cargo Box

<pic images/clever-crate.ps Michael discovered a collapsable cargo box at Costco.>

<em>Michael</em>
In Germany, many supermarkets carry these collapsable cargo boxes, and
they usually cost about three or four Euros. Experienced
shoppers carry them folded up in the trunks of their cars, and when
they've pushed the shopping cart full of groceries
back to their parking spot, they simply
unfold the box, place the items in it, and have thus saved the
environment from dealing with another plastic bag.

But these boxes are largely unknown in the United States. Angelika
calls them "Curver Boxes", but those are different, as they're solid
plastic and non-collapsable.

It must have been about 15 years ago, when I found a similar collapsable 
orange and black colored plastic box at the Daiso store, which is
a Japanese dollar store in Daly City. I paid only 6 Dollars for it,
first bought one, then another one, and every time I unfolded it
at the register of Trader Joe's groceries, the cashiers were rubbing their
eyes in disbelief and started marveling how smart the design was and
if I could do it again, just for illustration purposes, fold, and unfold
it, please? 

This story continued, as I said before, for something like 10 or 15 years, 
but lately, the two boxes started to show their age and kept
deteriorating slowly.
I went back to Daiso, but they no longer carried the marvelous
boxes. So I grudgingly glued my old broken boxes time and time again, until
by sheer coincidence I saw a new, much more stable version of the box
at Costco the other day. They called it "Clever Crates" and charged a whopping
$12.89 for it. I immediately bought two, and hope that this
new investment will pay off until year 2030 for all my groceries shopping.
If you know your way around Costco, it's an open secret that everything
in the store costs a certain dollar amount and 99 cents, but if you see
merchandize priced at $xx.89, it means that it's an everything-must-go
sale of a few remaining items. For heaven's sake, quick, go find your box
at Costco, it's an opportunity that opens only once every 15 years!

@Z: New Delivery Services

<pic images/door-dash-flyer.ps For restaurants without their own delivery service, there's a new way to offer delivery.>

<em>Michael</em>
Hardly any powermum has the time anymore to cook meals for dinner, and
that's why new kinds of delivery services are mushrooming in the
Bay Area. And it goes without saying that today's hipster families won't
order profane dishes like burgers or pizza anymore, but instead they insist
on produce grown by happy farmers, whole foods that are both sustainable,
gluten-free, and detoxicating, if that's indeed a word. Since not every
family-owned diner restaurant has the resources to get an order
web site up and running, which is also compatible with the latest
smartphones, or manage hoards of rabid bike messengers, a new 
breed of middleman entered the landscape offering exactly these kinds of 
services.

Take <LINK>http://www.doordash.com|Doordash</LINK>, for example, a company
that delivers dishes from restaurants that don't want to run their own delivery
service. Or <LINK>http://sprig.com|Sprig.com</LINK>, which cooks 
healthy meals with broccoli and less fat and delivers them to your doorstep
in environmentally friendly cardboard boxes. 

<pic images/sprig.ps Sprig.com cooks healthy meals and delivers them in an environmentally friendly way.>

And what fascinates me personally about these companies is that their
web pages and apps were apparently developed by people who actually know
what they're doing. Ordering is easy and even from a security standpoint they're
state of the art as well. If you compare that with, say, apps by the 
German news magazine "Der Spiegel", it seems as if Germany's
IT sector work force consists of former shopping cart retrievers, who
were retrained by the unemployment agency from complete amateurs to 
write smartphone apps in no more than two weeks time. Such slipshod work
and couldn't-care-less-attitude would be unthinkable in the U.S., as
the ubiquitous competition would simply crush companies with such bad
employees.

<pic images/opentable.ps It's that easy to reserve a table in a restaurant.>

Nowadays, to reserve a table in a restaurant, there's no need to call
them. Instead, their web site usually 
directs guests to a service called Open Table. Five buttons appear,
labeled 5:00 pm, 5:30 pm, 6:00 pm, and so forth, 
from which you simply select one and
then let the smartphone auto-fill in your name and phone number. That's it!
Recently, we were on a hiking trail in Point Reyes and were planning on
having lunch soon after, so we booked a reservation for an hour later right there
on the trail. After we had finished the hike and arrived back at 
the parking lot, we drove to the restaurant and were seated immeditately,
even though there were other people waiting in line. Open Table
is free for guests making reservations, and the restaurant pays a
fixed price of $199 per month plus $0.25 per guest if they came through
the restaurant's website, and $1.00 if they came via Open Table's own 
site.

And of course the local restaurant scene here also sports a small share of
naysayer dinosaurs, complaining that allegedly, 
<LINK>http://incanto.biz/2010/10/22/is-opentable-worth-it|Opentable isn't worth paying for</LINK>. But seriously, if you don't generate enough revenue to 
expense 25 Cents per Customer, you're already in a downward spiral and
better prepare to shut down your restaurant soon. Which, ironically, 
the previously mentioned restaurant owner has done recently. Well, it's
common knowledge that running a restaurant in San Francisco
is a relentless dog-eat-dog
competition, and what's most surprising is the sheer number of people
who think they can beat the odds. Most keep flushing down their money
down the toilet for a year or so before they finally realize it's not
for them and give up. I hope whoever reads this will do their homework
ahead of time and avoid that costly mistake.

<pic images/doorman.ps This lady can't believe her package didn't get nabbed by some package-stealing bum for a change.>

Another opportunity for a newly invented service industry came about because
unfortunately
there's a bunch of bums scouring our neighborhood during the day, stealing
packages casually "delivered" by mail carriers who simply
leave them on people's doorsteps (<RBLINK>20141221#2</RBLINK>). 
Recently, a young entrepeneur grasped the opportunity. He
previously pitched his idea in the the TV show 
<LINK>http://abc.go.com/shows/shark-tank|Shark Tank</LINK>
and has launched <LINK>http://doorman.com|Doorman</LINK>, a 
package delivery service with more flexible operating hours than
established companies like the US Postal Service, UPS, or Fedex. 
Instead of having online orders shipped to a private residence, people
now simply ship to Doorman, receive a message when the package arrives
and can then schedule delivery between 6pm and midnight. 
Doorman charges $3.99 per package or $19 a month for unlimited packages.
Great idea, and I'd hop on it if I hadn't perfected shipping to my 
workplace and hauling stuff home on the bus at night.

@Z: Unusual Drought Measures

<pic images/drought-showers.ps Showers at the beach have been shut off by the park service, prompted by the drought.>

<em>Angelika</em>
It's been reported all over the world that California has been struggling
with a severe drought for four years now, because there hasn't been enough
rainfall during the winter months. We've been experiencing the effects
of this lately day in and day out. Caused by the extreme dryness all around, 
there's no less than 17 active wild fires raging 
across the State of California, and
even in our neighborhood in San Francisco, we can smell smoke and 
the air is quite hazy.

<pic images/brown-new-green.ps "Brown is the new Green" is the motto on California's lawns.>

Although San Francisco hasn't legislated compulsory measures for saving
water yet, there's reminders towards conserving the precious resource
all over the place. The new
slogan "Brown is the new Green!" refers to the city no longer watering
their public green spaces, and they're asking citizens to follow
suit. 

<pic images/drought-restaurant.ps This restaurant stopped filling water glasses automatically and will do so only upon request.>

Many restaurants stopped automatically serving glasses filled with 
tap water at their tables. I hope that this stays that way, regardless
of the drought. And, unfortunately, the park service has turned off all
showers at the public state beaches, forcing visitors to return home
with sandy feet! And many gardeners are coping with the water shortage 
by picking plants which get by with very little watering.

<HTMLONLY>
<pic images/drought-carwash.ps The car wash is closed on Wednesdays to save water.>
</HTMLONLY>

<pic images/drought-carwash-ok.ps This is what the car wash looked like in happier days.>

Some hobby gardeners are watering their plants with reclaimed waste water.
A few municipal wastewater recycling plants offer this turbid water
product for free and people are driving to these places with giant 
containers on their trucks to haul them back filled with few hundred gallons.
Their offerings have become so popular that they've started restricting 
the program to local residents.

<pic images/drought-free-waste-water-1.ps Recycled wastewater for lawn watering ...>

<pic images/drought-free-waste-water-2.ps ... is given away for free and people haul it back to their yards in giant tanks on their trucks.>

It never ceases to amaze me how people completely change their behaviour
and mutate to environmentalists, just because they're not given a choice.
Even our carwash place is now closed on Wednesdays, to conserve water.
Some people cut so far back on their water usage that this led to 
downright absurdities, like the water supply companies raising their
prices (up to 30%) because due to concerted 
conservation efforts, they're not selling enough water to cover their cost.
Now, we all put our hopes on the forcasted El Nino winter, which is
supposed to bring the desired rain.

<pic images/la-times-selleck.ps Scandal: Actor Tom Selleck allegedly stole water to irrigate his lawn.>

Recently, news broke that the actor Tom Selleck, well-known for his lead role
in the 80ies TV series "Magnum",
<LINK>http://www.latimes.com/local/lanow/la-me-ln-tom-selleck-water-complaint-20150707-story.html|had become entangled in an irrigation scandal</LINK>. 
The Callegues Municipal Water District found it curious that a privately 
owned water truck had been heading to a public water hydrant several times a week,
to syphon off a full tank of water and drive it the actor's property. They hired a 
private investigator for a whopping $20,000 and found out that Magnum
used the water to irrigate his vast lot of greenery. And that while
his neighbors dutyfully rationed their water to comply with state
mandates, and were forced to look at their own dried brown turf in
disdain!
The water district sued Magnum, but both parties 
reached a settlement out of court, where Magnum paid the cost for the 
private investigator back, plus an undisclosed amount in damages.

@Z: Top Product: Rold Gold Pretzels

<pic images/pretzels-2.ps The classic Rold Gold Pretzel snack.>

<em>Michael</em>
Agreed, a bag of salty pretzels isn't exactly a gourmet snack, which 
would justify paying more for a respectable brand, but what I find
really fascinating about the Rold Gold pretzels is the classic 
1950ies design of the bag, which almost looks like it came straight
from an episode of <LINK>http://www.amc.com/shows/mad-men|"Mad Men"</LINK>.
These pretzels are bigger and thinner than those manufactured by 
other brands and you can easily eat a whole plate of them while
washing them down with a glas of beer. While doing that, 
I like to imagine how a middle class family man plops down on
the couch after work, turns on the black-and-white TV to 
"I Love Lucy" and starts dropping pretzels into his open mouth. 
Angelika finds this behavior unacceptable, which is why I can
only do it when I'm by myself.

<pic images/pretzels-1.ps A few pretzels along with a glass of beer: Priceless.>

According to the imprint on the bag, the brand has been around since 
1917, but no longer belongs to the original owner
"American Cone and Pretzel Company", as it got acquired by 
the gigantic Frito Lay corporation. And don't believe that it says
"America's No. 1 Pretzel" either, because the pretzel market leader
<LINK>https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Snyder%27s_of_Hanover|Snyder's of Hanover</LINK> is selling more of them.

Back in 2010, the press was tight-lipped about which brand of pretzel <LINK>https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=khTS0cU2IgQ|George W. Bush choked on|George W. Bush chokes on a pretzel</LINK>, in the incident that became known 
because he subsequently fell unconcious, face-planted against the wooden 
floor of his sun deck, to explain to astonished news people the next day 
where the big wound on his temple came from.

@Z: Tools made in USA

<em>Michael</em>
Which hobby handyman doesn't take pride in his tool collection! 
Ever since I was a young kid, I've been collecting the highest quality
tools, even when they could only be obtained at an exorbitant price.
For example, in my toolbag, there's two pairs of piers that are about
30 years old, made by the famous German toolmaker Bernstein, which I 
personally purchased back in the day
at the Bürklin store in the Schillerstraße in
downtown Munich, and I vividly remember how I cringed because they
were really expensive back then.
Or take the screwdriver set made in Germany by Wiha, which I bought
in Germany last year when we visited the old country again. They are
really fun to work with and feel fantastic, they really make my day
when I set out to repair anything that needs maintenance.

TODO

Genau wie in Deutschland findet man aber in den Regalen eines typischen
amerikanischen Baumarkts praktisch
nur noch Werkzeug aus China. Das ist im Prinzip 
nichts Schlechtes,
denn auch in diesem Segment findet der Heimwerker teilweise ausgezeichnet 
verarbeitete Stücke, falls er nicht gerade in der Grabbelkiste sucht. 
Kleinere Werkzeugläden, zum Beispiel die Firma "Ace Hardware" 
bieten allerdings auch mehr traditionell in den USA gefertigte Werkzeuge an.
Die strahlen eine besondere Anziehungskraft auf mich aus mit ihrem
ausladend, klobig und überkonstruierten Design. Viele national angehauchte
Kunden kaufen grundsätzlich nur Werkzeug "Made in USA" und auch auf Amazon.com 
liest man in den Kundenempfehlungen immer wieder erboste Kommentare, in
denen sich Leute darüber beschweren, dass ein traditionell in den USA
hergestelltes Teil nun in China gefertigt wird und die Qualität massiv
abgesackt ist.

<pic images/osborne-punch.ps (#2) Ein Lochzange der Firma Osborne, made in USA.>

Mir gefällt dieses hausbackene Design traditionell in den USA gefertigter
Werkzeuge, das sich scheinbar seit den 50er-Jahren nicht weiterentwickelt 
hat. Dass die alteingesessenen Firmen immer noch Materialien wie Gusseisen
verwenden, schränkt den Einsatzbereich mancher Werkzeuge zwar ein,
aber ich erfreue mich einfach an ihrem Aussehen und daran, wie sie in der 
Hand liegen. Die mächtige Rohrzange der Marke "Ridgid" (Abbildung (#1)) 
habe ich mir allerdings in der Aluminium-Ausgabe gekauft für schlappe
50 Dollar, aber das Teil fühlt sich an als könnte es einem Atomschlag 
standhalten. Das Design der Lochzange der Firma Osborne 
(Abbildung (#2)) könnte noch aus der
Zeit des Wilden Westens stammen, und kein Schuster oder Lederverarbeiter 
würde sich mit etwas weniger Solidem zufrieden geben.

<pic images/craftsman-hammer.ps (#3) Ein Zimmermannshammer der Firma Craftsman.>

Amerikanische Hämmer sind übrigens lustigerweise immer soge\-nannte 
Zimmermannshämmer mit einer Vorrichtung zum Nägelherausziehen am 
hinteren Ende, obwohl ich damit glaube ich noch nie auch nur einen
einzigen Nagel entfernt habe. "Craftsman" ist übrigens die
Hausmarke des Kaufhauses "Sears", was der größte Saftladen Amerikas ist,
in dem ich nur in allerhöchster Not einkaufen würde, zum Beispiel wenn
alle anderen Länden von einer Zombiehorde überrannt worden wären und
ich dringend einen Hammer bräuchte. 

Ich habe schon Sachen bei Sears Online
bestellt, wurde per Email zum nächsten Laden dirigiert, um ein Teil 
abzuholen, um dann festzustellen, dass es gar nicht da war. Der Laden
ist so bodenlos schlecht, dass es mich nicht wundern würde, wenn er
demnächst pleite geht. Aber der Hammer in Abbildung (#3) mit seinem 
50er-Jahre-Nussbaum-Stiel ist einfach zu schön, und den habe ich wahrscheinlich
eh bei "Ace Hardware" gekauft, einem Franchise-Laden mit vielen vielen
lokalen Niederlassungen auch in den abgelegensten Dörfern, in dem noch
aufrechte Verkäufer arbeiten, die tatsächlich noch Bescheid wissen.
Die verkaufen sogar noch einzelne Schrauben für 10 Cent! Ich sage, 
unterstützt diese Läden, wenn's eines Tages nur noch "Home Depot" und "Lowes"
gibt, werdet ihr heulen und mit den Zähnen knirschen, also drückt auch
mal ein Auge zu, zahlt ein paar Dollar mehr für ein größeres Trumm, 
ihr spart eh das Benzin zum nächsten Vorort-Baumarkt.

@Z: Thank you - Uh huh

<HTMLONLY>
<pic images/uh-huh.ps "Uh-Huh", ein erstaunlich vielseitiger Laut.>
</HTMLONLY>

<em>Michael</em>
Was erwidert man auf ein "Thank you"? Bereits am ersten Tag im Englischkurs
lernt man in Deutschland, dass "Bitte" in diesem Fall nicht "Please" sondern
"You're welcome" heißt. "Sure" kann man ebenfalls sagen oder "no problem".

Aber heute lernt ihr von uns, den ausge\-fuchs\-testen unter den 
einge\-fleisch\-ten Englisch-Experten auf dem amerika\-nischen Kontinent, 
was der Amerikaner in diesem Zusammen\-hang sagt, wenn er leger aber 
dennoch freundlich rüber\-kommen möchte, nämlich "Uh huh". Das hört man
oft, wenn sich jemand wegen trivialer Leistungen wie dem Aufhalten
einer Eingangstür mit "Thank you" bedankt. Ein "You're Welcome" wäre in
diesem Zusammenhang fast schon affig.
Das "Uh-huh" spricht man
im Amerikanischen fast wie "äh-hä" aus, aber wenn ihr's ganz genau wissen
wollt, befindet sich der Laut phonetisch etwa zwischen "a" und "o". Hebt man
die Stimme gegen Ende an, ist das freundlicher, fällt sie hingegen ab, 
kann auch etwas Sarkasmus reinspielen.
Manche äußern auch mit geschlossenem Mund "m-hm", das ist ebenfalls freundlich
gemeint.

Der Laut "Huh?" allein hingegen meint ein eher respekloses "Hä?", wenn
jemand so zusammenhangslos erzählt, dass der Zuhörer nicht folgen kann. Ohne
Fragezeigen hingegen drückt "Huh" mildes Erstaunen aus, nach dem Motto "Wer
hätte das gedacht?".  Streng formell ist übrigens keine dieser Floskeln, wer
einem knorkigen Anzugträger gegenüber sitzt, sollte lieber die althergebrachten
Sätze aus dem Englischkurs verwenden, um keinen Rüffel einzufangen.

@Z: Michael wechselt von Yahoo zu Apple

<pic images/mike-at-apple.ps Jetzt im Obsthandel tätig: Michael.>

<em>Michael</em> Und noch eine Meldung in eigener Sache: Nach mehr als zehn
Jahren bei Yahoo musste ich mir überlegen, ob ich auf die goldene Uhr warten
und dann in Rente gehen sollte, aber das war mir mit knapp fünfunddreißig
(hihi) ja noch zu früh. Also rappelte ich mich noch einmal auf, um eine neue,
atemberaubende Karriere zu starten, ja, um eine mächtige Dulle ins Universum zu
hauen! Ich wurde mit dem famosen
Telefon- und Laptophersteller handelseinig, und fahre seitdem in der Frühe
nicht mehr jeden Tag nach Sunnyvale, sondern mit dem Werksbus in eine andere
Stadt im Silicon Valley, deren Name so ähnlich wie Kupfertino klingt.

Grüße aus dem Land der Geheimnistuer:

Angelika \& Michael
