San Francisco, 11-08-2015

@Z: Now legalized: Air-drying laundry

<pic images/laundry-chinatown.ps These San Francisco residents in Chinatown can now legally air-dry laundry on their balcony.>

<em>Angelika</em> Hanging laundry outside to let it dry is seen with suspicion
in the United States.  Americans prefer running electric dryers inside the
house to airing clothes in the wind. Dryers are consuming energy, though, so
airing it is the greener approach.  But until recently, many appartment
complexes prohibited hanging laundry outside.  Powerful homeowners associations
(HOAs) consider laundry an eyesore, fear sliding property values, and therefore
until recently expicitly disallowed the practice in contracts signed by home
owners and their renters.

Starting January 2016, however, California residents can now legally 
hang their laundry outside to dry. Our governor Jerry Brown signed the
new law in October, as California strives to be with the top of the
pack when it comes to being environmentally friendly. California 
State Assembly representative Patti Lopez of San Fernando had brought the
new law on its way, but not mainly for environmental reasons. Many of her
voters can't afford electric dryers and air-drying laundry on a clothes line
comes at no cost. A few other states already have similar laws in place:
Florida, Hawaii, Maine, Utah, Vermont. And if you've ever been to 
San Francisco's Chinatown, you have probably noticed that it's very
common there to see laundry fluttering on clothes lines in the wind. It's 
always been this way, regardless of old or new laws.

@Z: Top Product: The Tile Key Finder

<pic images/tile-1.ps This keyring carries a small gadget by Tile that helps locating it when misplaced.>

<em>Michael</em>
Some people in our household, and I'm not naming names here on purpose, are
constantly misplacing their keys and wallet. You'd think that's an easy to solve
problem, simply make it a habit to always put them in the same place, but with
progressing age, it gets harder and harder to change bad habits.

<pic images/tile-2.ps An icon on the map shows the current location of the keyring.>

But there's help for people who are constantly searching for misplaced items. 
The startup company <LINK>https://www.thetileapp.com/about|Tile</LINK>, located
in Silicon Valley (where else), produces slender white plastic squares 
to attach to your key ring or stick inside your wallet. They can't determine
their GPS position on their own, but are in constant contact with their
owner's cell phone unless it moves away more than 30 feet.
If the Tile app on the smart phone notices that the tile goes out of range,
it stores its latest known position. Now if you misplace an item with
an attached tile, simply pull out your smart phone, open the app and 
see the last known position of your item on a map. If it's within Bluetooth
range of the phone, the app can contact the tile and make it play a ringtone,
so that it can be located even if it's out of sight, like in between the
sofa cushions. And since the smart phone app is constantly updating
the Tile servers with its current GPS position, other cell phones on the 
same account can be included as well and get a copy of the location data.

The tiles cost about $17 each and last about a year. As the embedded
battery can't be replaced, new tiles need to be purchased if they
run out of juice, that's how the company makes money. 

<pic images/tile-3.ps Zwo key rings and two wallets are constantly monitored with this app.>

If an item with an attached tile is hopelessly out of reach, for example
because a wallet has been stolen, it can be registered as lost with
the Tile app. The Tile server then broadcasts the missing tile message
to the Tile apps of other users, which then internally report if they
come across the missing tile by accident. If this happens, the original
user gets a report on where the missing Tile has been located, that's 
hilarious!

And the Tile app has another interesting side effect: In our household,
for example, we have a total of four Tiles in use, and they're being
monitored by two different smartphones. Since the tiles are usually
close to their owners, you get a pretty good idea on where they're located
at any point in time. For me, this means that I can find out almost
instantly where Angelika is milling around at the moment, because her
smartphone reports its position to the Tile server, which updates my
smartphone with her position. That's quite handy, I've got to say,
but if you don't want to be tracked, simply turn off your phone's
GPS function.

<pic images/prop-f-sign.ps This San Francisco resident endorses proposition F, which wants to introduce legislation to restrict Airbnb rentals.>

@Z: Will San Francisco limit Airbnb?

<em>Angelika</em> It's fairly commaon that the city of San Francisco lets its
residents decide on political matters with so-called propositions. In every
local election, there's a whole slew of them on the ballot, and citizens need
to make up their minds whether they endorse or reject a fair number of
individual proposals to new legislation. For this reason, November 4th this
year wasn't only the date for the mayoral election, but also for a
decision on "Proposition F", commonly known as the "Airbnb proposition".

You're probably familiar with Airbnb, it's that web platform that lets
you book short term stays in other people's appartments. It was established
by Brian Chesky, Joe Gebbia and Nathan Blecharczyk in 2008 in San Francisco,
shortly after the three founders had decided to rent out a few extra
beds and air mattresses in their appartment during a design conference
in the city. They talked their friend Nathan into launching a web site
originally called "Airbedandbreakfast.com", and the rest is history.

Despite these humble beginnings, the company has meanwhile become a big and
well-known brand name. While Airbnb (the originally longer name was shortened
in 2009) had been expanding into other cities and even foreign countries, it
also got into the headlines and under significant political pressure,
especially in San Francisco, where we're now facing the anomalies of 
another tech bubble which has created an absurd real estate market with 
limited supply and overwhelming demand.

<pic images/airbnb.ps Airbnb offerings in our neighborhood.>

At its roots, Airbnb is a brilliant idea. Residents who aren't using their
appartments or houses while they're out of town for some time, are renting out
single rooms or their entire place for a limited time. They're making some
money this way while relying on a proven process controlled by a trusted web
site.  They conveniently don't need to worry about managing the process, and on
the other side of the deal, the traveling tourists appreciate that they get
more personal accomodations than just another bleak hotel room. But critics
now object that many landlords find that they can make more money by repeatedly
renting their properties short-term through Airbnb, instead of letting regular
long-term renters move in, which takes more and more properties off our
rental property market, which currently has very limited supply, but boasts
record highs in demand.

The San Francicsco housing market is infamously overpriced and tight, 
which is why this issue is all over the news now. Proposition F would
limit short term rentals to 75 days per year by law. Currently, 
residential home owners are allowed to rent our their homes up to 
90 days per year while they're out of town. If the home owner is actually
present in the rental object, there's no restrictions on how often
it can be rented out to strangers.

If the proposition became law, it would require residents who
sublet their space to file detailed reports to the city on how long
each short term rental lasted, to allow them to verify if they
exceeded the 75 days limit. On top of that, the proposed law would
makes it easy
for neighbors to report noncompliant short term landlords and file
lawsuits against them. It's hardly surprising that Airbnb has spent
8 million Dollars in their campaign so far to thwart Proposition F.
Their main slogan tells that Airbnb enables residents of San Francisco
to earn money via short term rentals, to support them financially and
enable them to stay in their beloved but horrendously expensive city.
Update: Proposition F was turned down by the voters 55% to 45%.

@Z: Election Campaigns: Donald Trump and Bernie Sanders

<pic images/trump.ps Always entertaining: Donald Trump.>

<em>Angelika</em>
Although it's still quite some time until the next presidential 
elections in November 2016, we're already in the middle of fierce 
political campaigns this year. That's in part due to the 
long-winding process of the so-called primaries, in which the two
major political parties, Republicans and Democrats determine
their front-runners. Candidates need to mobilize their base during
this time and pull out all the stops in order to distinguish themselves
from the often unwieldy number of their competitors.

Given the choice between all the Republican party's candidates, 
both German and American news outlets have been focussing
on Donald Trump so far. His provocative loudmouth demeanor along
with his celebrity status have secured him the number one spot in
the news. At first, many political analysts and most commentators of
major newspapers like the New York Times belittled the Trump 
phenomenon as a bad joke and predicted its quick demise. But
unexpectecly, Trump prevailed, albeit by causing irritation in
the very same Republican party that supported him in the first place. 
Common wisdom in these circles has it that he distracts from other
viable candidates who would actually have a greater chance to
get elected into office.

It's tempting to simply write off Trump as a crazy person. It's true that
his behaviour is often unacceptable and what we keep hearing from him 
are mostly empty platitudes. But it would be a mistake to underestimate 
his abilities. Although his chances of being nominated are slim because
he's severly insulted several big voting groups, he's heavily fueling the
election campaign and takes away the attention from other Republican 
candidates. Especially his radical attitude towards illegal immigrants will 
almost certainly backfire at some point. His idea of building a wall
at the border between Mexico and the United States and his plan to
deport all illegal immigrants back to their home countries is rather
ludicrous. Knowing that the Republican party needs the votes of 
US citizens with Latin American background to win, that's not such a hot 
idea.

Trump has also scared off many voters with the most ridiculous claims.  For
example, he once stated that most illegal immigrants are criminals.  However,
this is clearly incorrect, as offical crime statistics prove that illegal
immigrants are less likely to commit violent crimes than natively born
Americans. If you think about it, this is what you would expect, knowing that
it would very unwise for someone to attract unwanted attention while living in
a foreign country without legal papers. Unsurprisingly, Trump's tirades have
since, raised the ire of many Americans with ties to Latin American countries,
who don't find it especially humorous when their countrymen are subject to
baseless accusations.

But the question remains as to why Trump obtained so much traction in the 
first place. He apparently primarily attracts Republican voters who generally 
feel betrayed by the majority of politicians in Washington. 
His target group are the lower middle class voters and
small business owners, who are feeling
threatened in their existence by the current
immigration and globalization policies. Another part of his audience
are right wing extremists who fear the country's downfall because they're
white Americans who are no longer in the majority. Trump is an outsider, and
just like Ben Carson and Carly Fiorina, who also have hopes of getting
nominated by the Republican party, has never held any position in 
American politics. But that might actually help him, just like it
seems to help Ben Carson and Carly Fiorina. Problem is, though, that
people seem to forget that no president, Trump or not Trump, can 
act like a pitbull in the White House, because his success depends
largely on how he can strike deals with the Senate and the House of 
Representatives in the democratic process, which requires more 
negotiation skills and the willingness to compromise than anything else.

Interestingly, Trump originally ran as an independant candidate, but 
later switched to become a candidate for the Republican party. 
I still want to believe that his whole campaign
is only a PR gag that will help him get another successful television deal
like the former hit series "The Apprentice" (<RBLINK>20040518#5</RBLINK>),
and maybe this time, he'll be able to even squeeze more money out of 
it.

<pic images/flickr-sanders-brookings.ps Democrating runner Bernie Sanders enjoys surprising popularity. Foto: flickr[Brookings Institution|96739999@N05/16305933820]>

Switching our focus to the Democratic Party now, it's interesting
to see that a new contender from the bylines has joined the race. 
Bernie Sanders doesn't get as much media coverage as Trump, but 
his fan base has been growing steadily. He is attracting voters from the
Democratic Party's left wing, mainly citizens who are deeply unhappy about
the fact that Barack Obama hasn't accomplished as much as they'd hoped
for, and who are committed to prevent another incarnation of the 
Clinton dynasty from happening. The 74-year-old Sanders even boasts an
impressive following amongst younger voters. Unlike Trump, he believes in
the democratic process, and he's is quite an experienced hand in Washington. 
Since 2007, he's been holding a seat in the Senate for the State of Vermont.
From 1991 till 2007, he had been a member of the House of Representatives.
He's even been the major of the town of Burlington in Vermont before.
Only since 2015, he's been a member of the Democratic Party, before that,
he had been running as an Independent for his various positons of 
political office.

He's been active for over 40 years, pressing for equal social rights.
He calls himself a socialist democrat, which is almost a bad word in the 
United States. Bernie Sanders pushes for fair wages, better working 
conditions (like legally guaranteed sick days), universal healthcare, 
and, above all, less influence on the policital process by the utra rich
through party contributions. He's opposed to the so-called super pacs
(<RBLINK>20121103#2</RBLINK>) and is funding his election campaign through
small time donations of under $200 each by regular citizens. It remains to 
be seen how well he's going to do in the primaries. The Clinton 
apparatus will leave to stone unturned to prevent Sanders getting nominated.
Ironically, he's not favored by minorities, although these voters would
benefit most from his proposed politics. He's simply not that well known
in these circles.

@Z: Laws for Assisted Suicide in California

<pic images/jerry-brown.ps Jerry Brown, governor of the State of California. Foto: flickr[U.S. Army Corps of Engineers|usacehq/15078131656]>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Just like in Germany, there's been an ongoing intense debate here in California
during the last couple of years on the legality of assisted suicide. There have
been numerous attempts to pass new regulations through the state senate to
legalize assisted suicide for the terminally ill. Time and time again, however,
new legislation failed to pass, but recently, supporters prevailed, when the
California senate passed a new law, signed by governor Jerry Brown, which will
take effect in January 2016.

It was long believed that Jerry Brown would veto the new law, since clerical
organisations built up a lot of pressure and Jerry Brown obviously struggled
with the decicision. To understand this, you need to know that Jerry Brown once
wanted to become a Jesuit priest and had spent some time in a Jesuit seminar.
But in the end, he signed the new law, and told that he finds it comforting to
have the option of assisted suicide when his own life ends, should he become
severely ill. After all, Jerry Brown is already 77 years old.

Since I'm working in the social field, my opinion is somewhat ambivalent
when it comes to assisted suicide. I think it's more important to 
accompany people through the dying process, and for example make sure to
prescribe appropriate medication to relieve any pain, as well as refrain
from unnecessary diagnostics or treatments. Assisted suicide tends to
easily wander off into hardly predictable gray areas. The new law requires
two independent doctors in California to confirm that a patient has only
six months left to live. The patient must be able to express their 
explicit will to die and must take the prescribed lethal medication 
themselves without assistance. Doctors and hospitals have the right
to refuse to participate in the program.

@Z: Hiking near the City

<pic images/sutro-forest.ps Mount Sutro Forest: Can you believe this forest is located right there in residential San Francisco?>

<em>Angelika</em>
We've been living here in San Francisco for what almost feels like an 
eternity, and over time, we've certainly found our favorite places and 
parks in the city. But the longer you stay in one place, the more it
becomes routine to keep going to the same places over and over again.

At least, that's what we've been doing until recently, when we decided to 
discover something new every Saturday. This was partly prompted by 
Michael moving to a new job. It came with the standard two weeks
per year vacation package, which is significantly less than he
had accumulated over the years at the old one. That's why our 
weekends now need to function as mini vacations to make up for it.

And indeed, we were surprised to realize how many hidden gems we hadn't
discovered yet.  Who would have thought, for example, that San Francisco has a
forest within its city limits? Many tourists are familiar with Golden Gate
Park, but you won't find any out of towners in Mount Sutro Forest. Tucked in
between the neat houses of Cole Valley and the UCSF university hospital
building on Parnassus Ave, there's a 100 year old oasis featuring loop hikes
lined by eukalyptus trees, some of which are more than 100 feet tall. Three
quarters of the forest are owned by the University of San Francisco, and the
rest belongs to the city. It was planted by Adolph Sutro, mayor of San
Francisco between 1894 and 1896, who had immigrated to the United States from
the city of Aachen in Germany when he was 20 years old.  You'll find the name
Sutro quite often in San Francisco: Mount Sutro Tower, Mount Sutro Baths, Mount
Sutro Forest. Now you know why.

<pic images/hike-tree-a.ps Hiking in Tilden Park in the East Bay.>

Since Mount Sutro Forest is located in the foggy part of town, 
photographers it enjoys great popularity amongst photographers who
cherish its spooky and magical touch. When we strolled through on 
a Saturday, the sun was out, but we were surprised how few people
we saw on the trails, because usually, the beautiful places in San Francisco
tend to suffer from severe overcrowding. We almost forgot we still
were in the center of a major metropolitan area, only every once in 
a while we were reminded of it by distant city noises.

<pic images/tilden-balance.ps There's always someone who can't help but goof off.>

Similar to the Mount Sutro Forest in San Francisco, there's another 
hidden gem located in the East Bay: Tilden Park. It's busier and
actually can get quite crowded on the weekends, though. It's hidden
behind the hills of University town Berkley and over 2,000 acres
in size. It's a mix of city park with attractions like a botanic garden,
a golf course, a mini steam engine track, and forest areas with hiking
trails. There's also a lake called Lake Anza, which is open for swimming
unless one of those recently pesky algae infestations is rampant again.
Many of the hiking trails offer great views of the city of San Francisco
across the Bay, and of course of the Easy Bay and the San Pablo reservoir,
unless it's clouded by fog of course. We hiked both the Quarry and the 
Big Springs trails around mid day and enjoyed a lot of sunshine.

<pic images/brotzeit.ps The German outdoor restaurant "Brotzeit" in Oakland even has an impressive collection of drinkable German beers.>

One of the benefits of hiking in urban areas is that there's often great
restaurants nearby. After our hike in Tilden Park, we stopped at
<LINK>http://brotzeitbiergarten.com|Brotzeit Restaurant</LINK> in
Oakland. It's beautifully located next to a small boat harbor and
its outside area features authentic German Biergarten tables and benches. 
Also, as it's customary in Germany, customers share the tables, which
is traditionally quite forein to the U.S., but nowadays every once in a while 
you can see this "community tables" concept pop up here and there.
Those are long tables occupied by different groups of guests at the same time.
During our visit, we realized that at the same time many miles away,
in Munich, Germany, the Oktoberfest was in full swing, and we ordered 
some of the German beer on tap. To our surprise, they didn't only have
the usual selection available in the U.S., but also a few local Munich 
brands we had never seen anywhere outside of Germany before. 
Food was a mix of German and American fare, as expected the usual 
grilled sausages, even jägerschnitzel, and of course sauerkraut, 
but also fish and chips and burgers. The German dishes were on the
fast food side, but actually quite good.

@Z: Royal Nuts: Hawaiian Host

<pic images/hawaiian-host-2.ps A box with two layers of Macademia nut chocolate truffles won't last as long as you might think.>

<em>Michael</em> Recently, at Costco, I discovered that they had two-packs of
the "Hawaiian Host" macademia nut chocolate truffles on sale, and couldn't help
but buy one immediately. Sweet, sweet memories of one of our first Hawaii
vacations dating almost twenty years back! I vividly remember how we arrived at
our vacation rental back then from the airport, how we opened the the screen
door and kept watching the ceiling fans rotating slowly. A nice breeze cooled
the appartment, and while inspecting our new quarters, we opened the fridge and
found a box of exactly these "Hawaiian Host" chocolate truffles.

<pic images/hawaiian-host-1.ps Macademia nuts, covered in a thick layer of milk chocolate.>

Now, as you're probably aware, I'm no friend of cheap sweets and for the
longest time, none of us touched the pack in the fridge. But eventually, we got
curious, opened it, and tried some of the milk chocolate pieces, each coating
two macademia nuts. If you've never had a macademia nut before, it can best be
described by the fact that it desintegrates into a thousand small pieces if you
bite on it, and the pieces start swirling around in your mouth, spreading a
mild nutty flavor, which is often also salty when the nuts were sprinkeled with
salt grain. It's quite the experience!

And in case of "Hawaiian Host", the milk chocolate takes the experience 
yet to another level. I usually put one of those big chocolate pieces in my
mouth and let it melt for about two minutes with very little movement,
and when the chocolate is all gone, I then bite into the now free floating 
Macademia nuts. It's incredible! If you see Hawaiian Host for sale at
a supermarket near you, by all means, buy a pack immediately, because 
that's possibly an unbelievable coincidence, as the product is usually 
sold exclusively on the Hawaiian islands.

@Z: Earthquake Proof Buildings

<pic images/quake-stabilizer-5.ps Thanks to these six diagonal shocks, in case of an earthquake, this building will be shaking slowly and then settle.>

<em>Michael</em> San Francisco has strict building codes making sure that the
next earthquake won't wipe out its infrastructure. Contractors need to be
licenced and are required build by the letter of the code or won't get their
permits.  Most houses around here are held together by  wooden beams and
plywood, it's quite rare to find brick and mortar residential buildings. That
has the downside that you might fall out of your bed at night when your
neighbor sneezes heavily in an appartment building, but in the event of an
earthquake shaking the building, you're pretty safe. Unlike brick buildings,
wooden structures won't crack and crumble and collapse, pancaking the
downstairs neighbor right away, but swing left and right and then settle
slowly.

<pic images/earthquake-warning.ps According to the city building department, this building is no longer safe.>

Even do-it-yourself home improvement projects can be fraught with 
legal pitfalls. If a crafty homeowner builds a new sundeck, for example,
it is subject to approval by a city inspector. However, this is often
forgotten or deliberately avoided to save money and hassle, but if 
the house is sold later on, there's usually another inspection which
reveals such unapproved projects that weren't done by "code". The seller
then needs to either get them fixed by a certfied contractor or lower
the price of the house to compensate the buyer for the problematic areas.

<HTMLONLY>
<pic images/code-violation.ps This home owner forgot to hand in a required form an now this sign at the front door tells the world about it.>
</HTMLONLY>

TODO

Oft greifen sparsame Hausbesitzer auch auf die Dienst\-leis\-tungs\-angebote
illegal eingereister Südamerikaner zurück, deren Handwerkskunst zwar der
eingesessener und zertifizierter Arbeiter und sogenannter "Contractors"
(Bauleiter) ebenbürtig ist,
aber halt nicht den offiziellen Vorschriften genügt. Da
ein so fertiggestelltes Bauwerk aber nur ein Bruchteil von dem kostet, was
ein Bauarbeiter mit sauberen Papieren verlangen würde, ist im privaten
Sektor Schwarzarbeit gang und gäbe, einschließlich der damit 
einhergehenden nicht offiziell abgesegneten Reparaturen.

<pic images/quake-stabilizer-4.ps Die Dämpfer sind drehend eingelagert und geben bei Stößen sanft nach.>

Bei öffentlichen Bauprojekten wählt die Stadt bei der Aus\-schrei\-bung
natür\-lich nur zertifi\-zierte Betriebe aus, die strikt nach Vorschrift bauen,
aber auch dort kommt es dauernd zu Problemen, weil die sich die 
Fertig\-stellung wegen Miss\-management verzögert, die Kosten plötzlich
explo\-dieren oder das Bauunter\-nehmen Sorgfalt bei der Durchführung
missen lässt, wie sich am Beispiel der rostigen Stahlbolzen beim Neubau
der Bay Bridge zeigte (<RBLINK>20130921#1</RBLINK>).

<pic images/quake-stabilizer-2.ps Große Gebäude brauchen entsprechende Dämpfer.>

Überhaupt ist ganz San Francisco zur Zeit
eine einzige Baustelle, und ich frage mich
immer, ob es tatsächlich niemanden kratzt, wenn sich Projekte endlos
hinziehen oder warum niemand die verbrecherischen
Bauunternehmen an die Kandarre nimmt,
wenn sie ihre Versprechen nicht einhalten. Wenn ich mir eine Art Vorhölle
vorstelle, dann sieht die so aus, dass ich mir ein baufälliges Haus kaufe und
dann auf Gedeih und Verderb einem schlitzohrigen Bauleiter mit
seiner Schluderertruppe ausgeliefert bin, die jeden Tag neue Ausreden 
erfinden und mich langsam aber stetig ins Grab treiben. 
Das wird niemals passieren, niemals!

@Z: Bye bye, Perly Perlman?

<pic images/perlman-lost-coast.ps Perly Perlman während seiner Glanzzeit um 2004 auf einem Feldweg entlang der "Lost Coast".>

<em>Michael</em> Ihr werdet es kaum glauben, aber als wir 1996 nach Kalifornien
zogen, hatten wir tatsächlich so wenig Geld, dass wir uns ein ganzes
Jahr lang überhaupt kein Auto geleistet haben. 
Dann bot mir 1997 ein Arbeitskollege bei AOL zum Schlagerpreis 
von 3.300 Dollar einen damals sechs Jahre alten Edel-Honda mit
100.000 Meilen auf dem Tacho an. Sein schwarzer Lack war wegen der im 
Silicon Valley dauernd
runterbrennenden Sonne schon überall abgeblättert, aber das war mir egal. 
Er hatte nur Gangschaltung, und keine Automatik, aber das kannte ich
gar nicht anders. Und der Vorbesitzer, ein Franzose, 
hatte den Wagen in einem Anfall von
geistiger Umnachtung ohne Klimaanlage gekauft. Aber ich war jung und 
hauptsächlich im windigen San Francisco unterwegs,
mit der mörderischen Sonne Südkaliforniens noch unvertraut.
Wir wickelten den Deal auf dem AOL-Parkplatz per Handschlag ab und 
ich war ab sofort stolzer Besitzer eines Acura Intregra Baujahr 1991.

<pic images/perlman-crossing-river.ps Auch ohne Vierradantrieb schafft Perly Perlman die Durchquerung dieses kleinen Flüssleins.>

Im Fernsehen hatte ich, auch schon in Deutschland, 
immer schon die in den USA erhältlichen
personalisierten Nummernschilder bewundert. Wegen meiner Vorliebe für die
Programmiersprache Perl schaute ich auf der 
<LINK>https://www.dmv.ca.gov/portal/dmv/detail/portal/ipp2/welcome|Website des Kraftfahrzeugmeldestelle Kaliforniens (DMV)</LINK> 
nach, ob das Kennzeichen "PERL MAN" noch zu haben sei. Es war noch
nicht vergeben, und so zahlte ich nicht nur die Registrierungsgebühr, um
mein neu erworbenes Auto anzumelden, sondern auch noch etwa 30 Dollar extra für
das personalisierte Nummernschild. Ich erinnere mich noch genau daran,
wie ich das Kennzeichen beim DMV in Redwood City abgeholt habe und es
gleich mit Hilfe eines mitgebrachten Schraubenziehers auf dem Parkplatz der
Kraftfahrzeugmeldestelle am Auto anbrachte. "Perly Perlman", wie das Auto 
von nun an hieß, war geboren.
Legendär ist das Foto oben von einem unserer Ausflüge, auf dem ich mit
Perly auf einem staubigen Feldweg entlang der Lost Coast in Nordkalifornien
rase und den Kopf zum Fenster rausstrecke (<RBLINK>20040826#5</RBLINK>).

<pic images/perlman-rear.ps (#1) Ein personalisiertes Nummernschild musste es dann aber schon sein.>

Wie man in Abbildung (#1) sieht, schraubte ich viel später, als ich zu 
Yahoo wechselte, einen dieser klassischen Licence-Plate-Holder mit dem
mittlerweile überholten Yahoo-Logo an das rückwärtige Nummernschild. 
Heute ein Klassiker! 
Und noch etwas fällt an dieser Aufnahme aus dem Jahr 2007
auf: Perly hat zwei Auspüffe, direkt nebeneinander, und dem linken 
fehlt seit dem Kaufdatum 1996 der Zierring und er schaut etwas
verrostet aus. Nun, das weiß ich noch ganz genau, denn um ja keinen
Fehler bei einer Investition von $3.300 zu machen, ließ ich das Auto 
damals vor dem endgültigen Handschlag mit dem Verkäufer 1997 noch von einer
Werkstatt untersuchen, die in ihrem schriftlichen Bericht tatsächlich
festhielt, dass der Auspuff erneuert werden müsse. Nun schreiben wir das
Jahr 2015, und Perlys Auspuff ist, 18 Jahre später, immer noch nicht
abgefallen, und wer mich kennt, weiß, dass ich den Teufel tun werde,
Komponenten zu reparieren, die nicht kaputt sind. "If it ain't broke,
don't fix it!" ist wohl einer der wichtigsten Merkregeln, die ich als alter
Hase der Jugend von heute mitgeben kann.

Ein gravierendes Problem bei einem 24 Jahre alten Auto ist allerdings, dass
es ohne Sicherheitsmerkmale wie Airbags (gab's 1991 noch nicht serienmäßig)
bei einem Unfall schnell zur Todesfalle wird. Und das passiert schnell,
denn Amerikas Fußballmutties schießen oft meilenweit blind in ihren 
Monster-Minivans durch die Gegend, weil sie ja gleichzeitig auf dem Handy 
herumtippen müssen. Oder habt ihr schon einmal versucht, in einem Auto
ohne ABS eine Vollbremsung einzuleiten, weil der Vordermann grundlos auf
seine natürlich elektronisch gesteuerte Bremse gelatscht ist? 
Sternstunden der Fahrkunst.

<pic images/buy-back-program.ps (#2) Kalifornien gibt mir 1000 Dollar, um Perly Perlman zu verschrotten.>

Neulich flatterte Post von Kaliforniens "Vehicle Buyback Program" ins Haus
(Abbildung (#2)), 
das Besitzern von Autos Baujahr 1994 und älter exakt 1000 Dollar
anbietet, wenn sie ihr Auto bei einer staatlich geprüften Stelle verschrotten
lassen. Wie auf der <LINK>http://www.baaqmd.gov/?sc_itemid=8CCDF124-2987-4933-86DB-53EA991D438F|Website des Buyback-Programms</LINK> nachzulesen ist, muss
das Auto allerdings strikten Kriterien genügen, damit der Staat die
Abwrackprämie locker macht. Besteht die alte Mühle zum Beispiel den 
alle zwei Jahre fälligen
Smogtest nicht mehr, gibt's auch kein Geld, denn der
Besitzer kann das Auto ja gar nicht mehr legal fahren. 

<pic images/smog-check.ps (#3) Der kalifornische Smogtest misst eine ganze Latte an verschiedenen Emissionswerten.>

Perlys Smogtest war bislang immer knapp an der Grenze, Abbildung (#3) zeigt,
dass der Messwert für emittierte Kohlen\-wasser\-stoffe (HC) bei 
kalifornischen Autos im Schnitt bei 39 ppm liegt, und der maximal zulässige
Wert 87 ppm ist, wenn das Auto 15 Meilen pro Stunde (etwa 24 km/h) fährt.
Wieviel hatte Perly? Genau 87 ppm, nur ein Kohlen\-wasser\-stoff\-atom mehr,
und Perly hätte um Haaresbreite nicht bestanden. Weiter misst der Smogtest
Kohlendioxyd, Kohlenmonoxyd und Stickstoff.
Wegen seines fortgeschrittenen Alters musste Perly in den letzten Jahren
immer zu einer sogenannten Star-Prüfstelle, das sind speziell lizensierte
Betriebe, die nur Smogtests machen und nicht etwa nebenbei noch Autos
reparieren, damit sie keinen Schmuh machen. Übrigens testet die Prüfstelle
auch noch weitere Details, und sieht zum Beispiel nach, ob der 
Tankdeckel auch richtig schließt. Lässt er Luft durch, segelt das Auto sofort
mit Karacho durch die Prüfung, aber meist hat der Tester für 
zehn Dollar einen neuen Tankdeckel parat.

Aber auch noch weitere Kriterien müssen vor der staatlich alimentierten
Verschrottung stimmen:
So muss das Auto noch seine Windschutzscheibe sowie mindestens ein 
Seitenfenster aufweisen. Motorhaube, Fahrersitz
und mindestens ein funktionierender Frontscheinwerfer sind ebenfalls 
Pflicht. Weiter muss der Motor sich ohne manuelles Einspritzen irgendwelcher
Zaubermittelchen starten lassen und der Wagen ohne Anschieben mindestens 
25 Fuß (7,6 Meter) vorwärts und 25 Fuß rückwärts fahren können.
Das sollte zu schaffen sein, in der nächsten Ausgabe berichte ich live 
aus der Schrottpresse!

Grüße aus dem Land ohne TÜV:

Angelika \& Michael
