San Francisco, 02-29-2016

@Z: San Francisco Shantytown

<pic images/tent-bridge.ps Under some of the freeway overpaths in San Francisco, homeless tent encampments have been popping up recently.>

<em>Angelika</em> Unfortunately, San Francisco has always had a 
large number of homeless people living within city limits. A variety of
factors exasperate the problem: Cost of living is at an all time high, 
there's a shortage of affordable housing, and currently we're experiencing
a full-fledged housing crisis in general. 
People who lose their job and don't have savings, quickly end
up on the street, because there are no social safety nets. San Francisco
is known for its liberal city politics and, despite all problems, there are
a variety of services for the homeless. Clearly, they're not sufficient
to deal with all the cases, but at least they exist. But San Francisco's
very mild Northern California climate and the fact that there's no rain during
the summer months, and no snow at all in the winter, makes some
people think they can just pitch a tent somewhere on the streets and
stay there.
At the beginning of 2015, there were a total of 6,690 homeless people 
living in the city. As long as we can remember, every mayor 
has promised to get the problem under control, but every single
one has failed to do so, or has quickly switched to other priorities after
a successful election.

<pic images/tent-bicycle.ps Two homeless people repairing a bicycle.>

And that the homeless have been setting up tent camps for years underneath
various freeway overpaths in San Francisco is hardly news to anyone who's been
living in the city for a while. There has been an encampment at the Cesar
Chavez 101 exit for many years, for example. Passing by it on my commute almost
every work day, I've noticed how it has been growing significantly during the
last couple of months.  Several days a week, there's nuns who are giving out
food to the homeless there, and I've even witnessed them giving the homeless
haircuts right there at the side of the road. I was quite moved by that. The
latest trend, however, seems to be that the homeless are simply popping up
tents right on the sidewalks in several central parts of the city.  Until
recently, for example, there were no less than 130 of these tents on the
sidewalk along Division Street.

<pic images/tent-row.ps Row of camping tents for the homeless in San Francisco.>

The 101 freeway overpath hovering above Division Street protects the tents
pitched below it from the elements in the rainy season. The neighborhood has
never been a top dollar spot in the city, but it features several big stores
like the electronics retailer "Best Buy" or the office suppy store "Office
Depot". And then there's of course the famous independent worker-owned co-op
Rainbow Groceries (<RBLINK>20050925#3</RBLINK>) right around the corner. Their
1968-generation type management team is usually fairly relaxed when it comes to
law enforcement with the homeless, but even they've had enough in the meantime,
according to reports by a local newspaper. 

<pic images/tent-tarp.ps Single tent with plastic tarp near Division Street.>

There were reports of homeless people scaring away store customers, using 
supermarket toilets as their private bathrooms or tent encampments
blocking loading docks. According to the store owners, it was 
not uncommon that a homeless person would enter the store and expose 
themselves or just start screaming. Many are mentally ill and
should rather get medical care, but there's only very few locations
offering such services. The Rainbow Grocery employees tried to 
get the attention of San Francisco mayor Ed Lee with this issue and
pointed out the urgency, but didn't receive any help by
the city. And Rainbow didn't even want to drive the homeless away,
but simply asked for more sanitary conditions by providing more
toilets and garbage cans.

<pic images/tent-phone.ps A homeless man makes a phone call.>

Last week, however, city officials suddenly sprang into action and 
threatened to forcefully remove the tents. They set a timeline of 72
hours. At first, social workers tried to convince the dwellers to
voluntarily move out of the tents and into the new temporary homeless
shelter at Pier 80, which offers 150 beds, or rather 150 mattresses on
the floor. Unsurprisingly, the shelter offer didn't seem to find any 
takers, although this particular facility is quite permissive, compared
to other shelters: It allows the homeless to bring their pets and all
their possessions, and partners can cuddle up in the same bed.

<pic images/tent-inside.ps Looking inside a sidewalk tent.>

What's even more attractive is that the new shelter at Pier 80 doesn't need to
be vacated during the day. And the city is serving three meals a day. Alas,
many of the homeless find Pier 80 to be too far off. A few could be convinced
to cooperate, and on Friday the number of sidewalk tents went down to about 40.
On Saturday, only about 10 remained. However, most of the sidewalk campers
simply moved a few blocks away, and pitched their tents there instead. Despite
the ultimatum, SF police didn't show to remove the remaining tents. The city
hopes that the homeless who moved to Pier 80 will stay there.  I have my
doubts about that. It's rather likeley that there's going to be a
great increase in sidewalk tents again soon.

@Z: Perly Perlman's last resting place

<pic images/dismantler-4.ps Perly Perlman: Last seen at the junkyard.>

<em>Michael</em>In the previous installment of this publication, I had
reported that a program run by the state of California had offered me
one thousand Dollars to take my 1991 Acura Integra, 
nick-named "Perly Perlman", off the streets. I had somewhat tongue-in-cheek
announced that I'd be reporting live from the junk press soon, and
little did I know that it would actually happen this fast! But recently,
Angelika had told me that our backup car started acting up while
she was driving across the Bay Bridge, and reportedly had to stop and pull
a stuck clutch pedal back up by hand, so I acted quickly and purchased
a new commuter mule for her: a 2011 Honda Fit.
There's a hard to ignore trend to three car households in the U.S., but 
we only have two garage spots available, and parking on city streets means
dealing with frequent break-ins and car theft, let alone the constant
hassle of moving the vehicle because of residential parking and street
cleaning days. And for that reason, we had to say good-bye to our 
beloved Perlman, after 17 years of service, and at the still young age
of 24. Boo-hoo!

<pic images/dismantler-1.ps Here's the last resting place for old cars waiting to be scrapped.>

So I dialed the number listed on the flyer sent by the Bay Area Air Quality
Management District, got an actual human being on the line who explained the
process: I had to make copies of the vehicle's title and the last three yearly
registration receipts and fax those back to the program manager. Who keeps
those receipts for the last three years?  Turns out, Angelika had kept them
neatly stapled together, but I'm pretty sure not many people are that
organized. So I collected everything and faxed the copies back. Two days later,
the phone rang and we were asked to schedule an appointment at a vehicle
dismantler facility.  The earliest available appointment was three weeks later,
which sounded pretty crazy to me, but I agreed. On a Monday at 8 a.m., Perly
Perlman was scheduled to be dropped off at a junkyard about two miles from our
house.

<pic images/dismantler-2.ps Der luxurious waiting room at the vehicle dismantler.>

In the meantime, we had to park one of the three cars on the street, which
turned out to be a whole production because of San Francisco's silly 72 hour
rule. It says that you can't park any car longer than 72 hours on the same
street block, even if street cleaning or residential parking regulations would
allow for it (<RBLINK>20090315#2</RBLINK>). So we picked one of the few streets
in the neighborhood not yet infected by the fast-spreading residential parking
disease, and found a spot during a weekday, when parking wasn't in high demand,
as it is in the evening hours when it's nearly impossible to score a spot. We
put a so-called "club" on the steering wheel to prevent socially deprived
adolescents from joy-riding. Every three days, we pulled up with another car
from the pool, and switched places with the parked vehicle in a quick tag 
team move. No violations of the 72 hour rule were reported.

<pic images/dismantler-3.ps The junkyard cat enjoys a hearty meal on the dismantler's work desk.>

At the dismantler facility, it all went down very quickly and professionally. 
The owner briefly inspected Perly Perlman, drove a few feet forward and 
backward, and accepted without any complaints. I had to fill out
half a dozen pieces of paperwork, submit the vehicle title document and
the last three registration receipts, and was assured that within 
a few days, I'd be receiving a check in the mail. Lacking a vehicle to drive
home, I got a Lyft Internet cab home, which was only five dollars plus tip.
Three days later, a check over 1000 Dollars arrived in the mail.

@Z: Sedona/Arizona

<pic images/sedona-chapel-view.ps Rock formations in Sedona/Arizona at sunset.>

<em>Michael</em>As a relaxing vacation during the break between Christmas and
New Years, we set out to fly to the small town of Sedona in the state of
Arizona.  We had booked a vacation rental home and spent some time exploring
the beautiful rock formations surrounding the area, famously radiating their
intense red light.  The desert climate in Sonoma presented below freezing
temperatures, which really felt nasty cold to us, being used to San Francisco's
milder coastal weather now. We had booked a standalone vacation rental via VRBO
("Vacation Rentals by Owner"), and since the consumer price index in Arizona is
still miles away from the current inflated craziness in the Bay Area, we
paid about as much as for a rundown San Francisco motel room, but got an entire
house with three spacious and tastefully furnished rooms that would have slept
six. The vast living room featured a real cast-iron wood-burning oven, which I
practiced my fire making skills on every single evening.

At dusk one day, we wanted to hop into our rental car and drive somewhere, but
noticed that it had been surrounded by about a dozen wild pigs digging around
in the dirt near the parking spot.  I darted towards the driver's door and
jumped in, but then struggled finding the opener for the passenger door, which
left Angelika locked out for a few seconds. She started moving erratically
thinking she was going to be attacked by the pigs, but that was of course
totally overblown.

<pic images/sedona-arriving.ps Driving into the town of Sedona offers great views at the majestic red rocks.>

The city of Sedona itself is a small touristy place, featuring the usual 
useless art galeries to be expected in such places. Every day around four in
the afternoon, tourists are heading back to town in droves from their hiking
trips and cause miles and miles of stand-still traffic on the two arterial
roads leading towards the village center, where everyone and their dog is later
trying to grab a bite to eat at a handful of restaurants, which are
unsurprisingly packed to the brim.

It was off-season when we were there, I'm pretty sure that Sonoma turns
into an Octoberfest-grade party town during the summer season. What's 
sticking out from an automotive transportation perspective are the
huge number roundabouts at various intersections throughout the city.
Driving directions to our vacation rental mentioned about a dozen of them.
An astonishing number of rural Americans don't know how to approach these
and do silly things like coming to a complete stop with their monster
trucks right before the roundabout, instead of simply entering when it's
safe to do, just as if they saw an invisible stop sign posted in front.
Honking usually helps.

<pic images/cactus-mike.ps Cacti growing right next to the highway in Arizona.>

The day before New Year's Eve, we drove up two hours to our old favorite, Grand
Canyon. On the mountainous road at zero Fahrenheit, the cheap rental car's
windows fogged up with a thick layer of ice and the car's whimpy fan wasn't
blowing strong enough to clear them up, so we had to stop at a gas station to
purchase an ice scraper. Unfortunately, the cashier confided in us that they
ran out of out of ice scrapers entirely because of the weather conditions!
Luckily, five miles down the road, we found another gas station somewhat off
the beaten track which still carried the desired item, and we continued our
journey with properly cleared windows.

<pic images/sedona-butze.ps The Sonoma vacation rental offered great views of the surrounding mountains.>

At Grand Canyon Village, we inquired about the trail conditions at the visitor
center. We wanted to know if we could hike the so-called Bright Angel Trail, a
steep path down to the Colorado River at the bottom of the canyon. As our loyal
long time readers know, the two of us actually met in Las Vegas many many years
ago and drove to Grand Canyon. Being a young lad back then, me and my buddy
Huaba started at the rim and hiked all the way down to the Colorado River and
back up in a single session. I remember that an Englishman in our group
couldn't handle it and collapsed on the way up, a mile before reaching the rim.
We had to climb down again and nourish him with Snickers bars to get him to
continue all the way up. Ironically, this time we found that the 
trail description had been removed by the park rangers from the 
visitor center's maps. The fine print explains that it takes several days
to complete. Haha!

<pic images/grand-canyon.ps The impressive Grand Canyon in Arizona.>

<pic images/bright-angel-trail-angelika.ps Angelika on the icy Bright Angel Trail.>

It was the middle of December, and the park rangers told us in no uncertain
terms that the trail was quite icy and strongly recommended to get so-called
"crampons", miniature climbing irons for the hike. Unfortunately, they were out
of rentals that day, and we settled for two pairs of trecking poles at the
unbeatable price of $2 (per stick), and set out to slowly stumble down the icy
trail while holding onto them. 
After about two miles, the ice was gone, and we continued on the trail
to a small hut, then turned around after 3 miles and went back up to the
parking lot. The views in the canyon are pretty amazing, with the stair-like
rock formations, with the total elevation difference being 6000 feet, while
the canyon measures 18 miles at the widest section.

<pic images/sedona-cross.ps Angelika crossing a small creek on the "West Fork" trail.>

On another day trip near Sedona, we were hiking on the West Fork Trail, which
wiggles across a small creek about a dozen times inside a narrow canyon.
There's no bridges, and hikers need to cross the creek every time by balancing
on rocks or fallen trees in the water. Some parts of the creek were covered
with a thin layer of ice, cracking suspiciously while we carefully tippy toed
across.

<pic images/devils-bridge.ps Mike on the Devil's Bridge rock formation.>

We also trotted up the trail to "Devil's Bridge", another popular Sedona scenic
hike to a natural rock bridge. It can be crossed on a narrow trail 
with a gaping drop of a few hundred feet on either side. I'm not afraid of 
heights, so I went back and forth a few times, while Angelika stayed on the 
safe side and started worrying so much that the quality of the photos taken 
turned out to be terrible! Oh my!

@Z: Controversial Urinal in Dolores Park

<pic images/dolores-park-urinal.ps Dolores Park: Tinkle with city views.>

<em>Angelika</em> We had mentioned in a previous issue that our neighborhood
recreational area, Dolores Park, has turned into a major attraction, to the
point where it recently started resembling Oktoberfest on the weekends
(<RBLINK>20150427#1</RBLINK>). A while ago, the city completed its renovation
to the sound of a whopping 20.6 million Dollars, and now there's bike racks,
improved tennis and basketball courts, the lawn is brand new and offers lush
greens, and significant number of restrooms were built. But because of the
non-stop party scene on the weekends, the number of local resident complaints
has skyrocketed, mainly because the neighbors don't find it very appealing that
party goers kept releaved themselves onto their plants or doorways.  The city
reacted quickly and spearheaded a one of a kind pilot project in Dolores Park,
namely the erection of the first San Francisco open air urinal, following
designs popular in Paris, Amsterdam, and other European cities. It might not be
too much of a stretch to claim that this project is probably unparalleled in
the entire United States.

<pic images/urinal-line-light.ps Short line at the open air urinal compared to regular restrooms at Dolores Park.>

Alas, it almost seems that the city ran out of money half-way through the
project, as the pissoir in Dolores Park looks quite unfinished. It only
consists of a semi circle of wired fence with a white plastic cover, but opens
up to plain view in the back. The fact that the J Church train stops right at
the pissoir renders this project a complete travesty. Maybe one of the city
planners should have invested in a business trip to Paris to pick the local
urinal guru's brain there before wasting a whopping $15,000 for this 
completely ridiculous knockoff in San Francisco.

At first, we thought that no one was going to use it. To be honest, it's a
mystery to me how anyone would even recognize the new structure as a public
urinal.  But last weekend, we saw with our own eyes that it's become actual
quite popular with the park visitors, and we saw a long lines of people forming
eager to use it. The weather was nice and sunny and the park was packed with
sun worshippers who, after consuming alcoholic beverages, apparently felt the
need to releave themselves using the newly built urinal. Other scofflaws though
still went about their business in the park.

<pic images/dolores-park-toilet.ps Long lines at the public toilets in Dolores Park.>

As you might know, the Americans are a somewhat prude and litigious society,
so it didn't take long for some obscure organization to come forward and demand 
dismantling of the newly erected pissoir. The conservative 
<LINK>http://ebar.com/news/article.php?sec=news\&article=71283|"Pacific Justice Institute"</LINK> of Sacramento took issue with the fact that urinal
users releaved themselves in a somewhat public location, and worried that
passers by would see things they weren't supposed to see. Which reminds me
of my first visit to the United States, when I noticed that retail staff
in clothing stores would make sure the fitting room curtains were entirely 
closed whenever I accidentally left a small gap open while trying something on.
Back then I found it pretty amusing, what's interesting with the issue
at hand, though, is that it came up at all, since San Francisco is very 
different in this respect and naked people are not an uncommon sight 
in the streets here.

@Z: Top Product: Arlo Surveillance Cameras

<pic images/arlo-mount.ps The completely wireless battery-driven surveillance camera by Arlo.>

<em>Michael</em>
When we're on vacation, I can't help but worry what's happening at home.
Is the house on fire? Are burglars breaking in? Luckily, one glance at my 
cell phone shows footage from several strategically positions surveillance
cameras, and I can relax because everything is fine and dandy at its
place.

<pic images/arlo-app-video.ps A smartphone app shows live footage from several surveillance cameras.>

I'm sure you know already that typical surveillance cameras are transmitting
video footage over a wireless Wifi link to the hub, but unfortunately still
draw power through conventional cables from the power outlet. This
often complicates installing a camera in places where no power is readily
available, like in the hallway or on the balcony, not to mention that
lining your walls with power cables is hardly contributing to stunning
interior design.

Arlo has solved the problem by using four long lasting lithium batteries
in every camera, which is about the size of a child's fist. Thanks to a
motion sensor, the camera is starting up as soon as an object is moving
in front of it, and is recording between 10 and 30 seconds of video, depending
on the user's settings. The movie data goes wirelessly to the base
station which can be up to 300 feet away, and from there to a server
operated by Arlo on the Internet. Archived videos can be watched by
smartphone app or web browser, from wherever you might be located
at the time. Arlo keeps archived videos for a month, and offers a
download link on every recording, to allow the user to store the most
interesting ones at home.

<pic images/arlo-app.ps Whoa! Movement at the door!>

The Automatic phone app isn't exactly designer prize material, but works
reasonably well. It's hardly surprising if you know that Arlo is now
owned by router maker Netgear. Theyr'e known for good hardware, but seem
to employ subpar software engineers to cobble together their user interfaces.
I've configured the app to send a notification to my phone every time
there's movement in front of any of the cameras. That way, I'm always up
to date on what's going on.

<pic images/arlo-battery.ps Four lithium batteries power the camera.>

Batteries last about a month, but durability heavily depends on how often 
the camera activates because of movement. Since I don't like using
throwaway batteries, I invested in rechargables at a whopping price of
8 Dollars per battery (!), straight out of China, including a special charger.
The lithium format isn't as common for rechargeables yet, so there's
definitely a premium to pay.

TODO

<pic images/arlo-charger.ps Akkulader für die Lithium-Batterien der Kamera.>

Einer unserer Nachbarn hat sich ebenfalls eine Arlo-Kamera gekauft und sie
in den Hohlraum unter seinem Haus, den in Amerika sogenannten "Crawlspace",
gestellt. Er war erstaunt, was dort tief in der Nacht so abgeht: Ein Stinktier
schnüffelt herum und ein Waschbär tänzelt durchs Bild. In einem weiteren
Video huscht eine Katze mit einer gefangenen Maus im Maul zurück ins Haus, 
und an der Gartentür marschiert ein unbekleideter
Partygänger vorbei. Auf Youtube hat er die besten Szenen seiner
<LINK>https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NH9f4OXVarU|Arlo-Videosammlung</LINK> 
zur allgemeinen Belustigung aufs Netz gestellt.

<pic images/arlo-skunk.ps Die Kamera hat ein ein Stinktier unterm Haus aufgenommen.>

@Z: Monsterwellen bei Mavericks

<pic images/mavericks-3.ps Die Mavericks-Surfer riskieren Kopf und Kragen.>

<em>Angelika</em> Seidem Michael die Leidenschaft des Surfens endeckt hat, höre
ich viel darüber, wie die Wellenlage in Pacifica gerade ist. 
Der Ort liegt 20km südlich von San Francisco und Michael surft am Wochenende 
immer dort. Jeden Samstag- und
Sonntagmorgen prüft Michael zunächst die Wellen-Kamera auf dem Internet. Die
Wellen dürfen nicht zu klein, zu groß, zu wühlig usw. sein. Das ist eine
Wissenschaft für sich. Gott sei Dank hat Michael großen Respekt vor
Monsterwellen und bleibt diesen fern.  Einige der besten Surfer dieser Welt
können von diesen meterhohen Wellen allerdings nicht genug bekommen und fliegen
um die ganze Welt, um in ihnen zu surfen.

Es gibt nur wenige
Monsterwellen-Surfer ("Big Wave Surfer"), denn das Risiko ist enorm hoch. An
der Nordküste von Oahu, also in Hawaii, entstehen im Winter regelmäßig solche
hohen Wellen. Erst letzte Woche fand deshalb der "Eddie-Aikau-Surfwettbewerb"
statt, bei bis zu 15 Meter hohen Wellen in der Waimea Bay. Aber
auch bei uns um die Ecke in einem Pillar Point genannten Hafen 
in dem kleinen Ort Princetown-by-the Sea, der 40km südlich von San Francisco 
und etwas nördlich von Half Moom Bay liegt, findet jedes Jahr
ein bekannter Surfwettbewerb namens "Titans of Mavericks" statt,
wenn die Bedingungen stimmen. 

Dieses Jahr brachte das Wetterphänomen "El Nino" die gewünschten Monsterwellen,
sodass im Februar der Surfwettbewerb erstmals wieder seit 2 Jahren stattfand.
Den Wettbewerb gibt es seit 1999 und nur 10 Mal waren seitdem die Bedingungen
optimal und die besten Surfer der Welt traten an, um die Wellen zu bezwingen.
24 Surfer nehmen an dem Wettbewerb teil, und rein kommt man nur per Einladung.
Der Wettbewerb ist an einem bestimmten Tag, der kurzfristig festgelegt wird und
dann müssen die Surfer buchstäblich alles stehen und liegen lassen und nach
Kalifornien reisen. 

<pic images/mavericks-2.ps Fällt der Surfer, beutelt ihn die Welle ordentlich durch.>

Am 12. Februar war es dieses Jahr soweit. Leider ist es
kaum mehr möglich, den Wettbewerb vor Ort zu verfolgen, denn im Jahr 2010
verletzte eine Superwelle einige Zuschauer und seitdem sperren die Veranstalter
alles ab und zwingen die Interessierten, sich das Spektakel als Liveübertragung
auf dem Fernsehschirm anzuschauen. Und ehrlich gesagt surfen die Surfer auch so 
weit draußen, dass man sie eh nur mit sehr starken Ferngläsern sehen könnte. 

Das sieben Stunden lange
<LINK>http://www.redbull.tv/videos/event-stream-596/half-moon-bay-california-usa|Mavericks-Live-Video</LINK>
zeigt die besten Szenen. Schon der Wahnsinn, wie es die Profis teilweise in den
Wellen herumwirbelt. Als Schutzmechanismus haben sie eine aufblasbare
Schwimmweste um und die Surfer können wie bei einem Fallschirm an einer Leine
ziehen, um die Schwimmweste aufzupumpen, die sie dann hoffentlich an die
Wasseroberfläche bringt.  Wer schon einmal in dem Strudel einer nur ein Meter
hohen Welle geraten ist, weiß, dass man schon dann ganz schnell nicht mehr
sagen kann, wo oben und unten ist.

Einige Weltklasse-Surfer sind in den Maverickswellen leider auch schon
umgekommen. Mavericks ist dabei der Name der Stelle im Ozean, wo diese riesigen
Wellen sich aufbäumen. Sie entstehen, weil sie sich über Kilometer hinweg im
pazifischen Ozean im Winter aufbauen und dann die besondere Form des
Meeresbodens sie in einer bestimmten Form brechen lässt. Surfer geben den
beliebten Surfstellen gern Namen, so gibt es auf Oahu die berühmte "Pipeline"
und dann eben "Mavericks" bei uns um die Ecke. Angeblich wurde Mavericks nach
einem Hund des ersten Surfers benannt, der an dieser Stelle im Ozean surfte.
Ein anderer Surfer, Jeff Clark, der in Half Moon Bay aufwuchs, bezwang dann die
Monsterwellen zum ersten Mal im zarten Alter von 17 Jahren, lange bevor
Mavericks weltberühmt wurde.  Jeff Clark betreibt heute noch einen Surfshop in
Princetown-by-the Sea mit dem Namen "Mavericks". Mittlerweile ist er fast 59
Jahre alt. Die Surfbretter, die er verkauft und herstellt, probiert er übrigens
alle selbst im Ozean aus.

Grüße aus dem Land, das hohe Wellen schlägt:

Angelika \& Michael
