San Francisco, 06-18-2016

@Z: Orlando

<pic images/orlando-castro-crowd.ps Residents of San Francisco's Castro neighborhood are mourning the victims in the Orlando shooting.>

<em>Angelika</em>
Unless you've been hiding under a blanket the last couple of weeks,
you've probably heard of the Orlando massacre. 49 dead and 53 injured
by a lunatic who entered an Orlando night and dance club and opened
fire on the guests. Once again, this triggered new discussions about
gun laws, which I suspect won't lead anywhere.

<pic images/orlando-castro-sign.ps Handwritten signs at the memorial service for the victims.>

The dance club in Orlando was a popular gay venue, which was the reason
it was targeted by the shooter. June is the month of "Gay Pride" celebrated
by the gay and lesbian community all over the United States. The parade and
its festivities in San Francisco are legendary. The entire city is covered
in rainbow flags and many happy party goers celebrate, regardless of their
sexual orientation.

<pic images/orlando-castro-handwriting.ps Personal words by a San Francisco citizen mourning the victims of the Orlando shooting.>

People were looking forward to the celebration, because the supreme
court had just legalized same sex marriage last year in June. But what
happened in Orlando, has now tarnished the festivities. In the Castro,
our famous gay neighborhood, many residents were shocked and concerned and
showed their empathy with the victims of Orlando.

<pic images/orlando-castro-sit-in.ps A sit in on the sidewalk to give passersby the opportunity to talk.>

On 18th Street at the corner of Castro Street, we saw a sea of flowers on
the sidewalk for the victims. At Harvey Milk Plaza, many people had written
notes on paper and posted them at a nearby fence. And whoever needed someone
to talk to was offered the opportunity by sitting down in a circle drawn
with chalk on the sidewalk.on with likeminded individuals.

By the way, tomorrow morning, exactly seven days after the attack have gone by,
Michael will be flying to a Perl conference scheduled at a location set years
ago in advance, guess where? Orlando, of all places. Live goes on.

@Z: A Big Dent in Our Rental Car

<pic images/rcc-bumper.ps Michael managed to put a big dent into our rental car's bumper.>

<em>Michael</em> Every time we book a rental car on vacation, the agent behind
the counter brings up the question on how to insure the car. In California, rental
car agencies are required by law to provide liability insurance at no extra
cost with the rental. In case of an accident, it covers bodily injury to other people
and damages to their cars. But watch out, these policies only cover the minimum
required by law, which is a measily
$30.000 in California. You're personally on the hook for any damages exceeding
this amount, which can easily occur if you scrap someone else's luxury car or
run over a pedestriant.  Especially with severe bodily injury cases or even
fatalities, damages can easily go into the millions in our litigious country.
People who live here usually already have insurance for their cars at home, and
the contract typically also covers rental cars while on vacation. But read the
fine print of your contract to make sure this actually applies to your personal
situation.

<pic images/amex-rental-car-claim-site.ps Rental car damage claims can be filed with American Express on yourcarrentalclaim.com.>

Secondly, there's the question on how to insure the rental car. Who's going to
pay if some bum smashes the side window on a parking lot in a tourist location?
What happens if there's tire damage or if a pebble hurled up by the next car on
the highway hits the windshield and leaves a crack? What happens if the rental
car gets stolen? The car rental companies offer insurance products for these
scenarios as well, it costs about $15 per day to cover them, but I always
decline such offerings while looking straight into rental agent's
pretend-horror faces. I always leave covering the extended liability to my home
car insurance and the collision/theft coverage to my credit card.  For
example, my American Express card provides collision/theft protection if I use
it to pay for the rental. Ironically, last time we went to Hawaii on vacation,
we've found ourselves in the somewhat unfortunate situation to verify how that
will actually play out.

<pic images/rcc-viking-1.ps Three weeks later "Viking Billing Services" wants to see 490 Dollars.>

It happened on the first day, right after we had arrived at our vacation rental
location from the airport. I had the very clever idea to back up the rental car
on the place's rather steep driveway all the way to the house's doorstep to
avoid having to haul our luggage up by hand.  Hertz had given us a Mazda 3 with
an generously sized trunk with dimensions not easily fathomable by simply
turning your head and peeking through the rear window from the driver's seat.
To get up the steep incline, I stepped on the gas in reverse quite a bit, and
didn't notice until I heard an infernal noise that a stone wall had been in the
way, protruding diagonally upwards from the ground to about 2 feet on its
highest end.

<pic images/rcc-viking-2.ps (#1) The total damage amount is the sum of repair cost, administration fees and loss-of-use payments.>

It wasn't until a few days later, that I realized that our rental car actually
sported a rear facing camera projecting live video onto the dashboard, to allow
the driver to follow along what's happening behind the car going in reverse --
and to prevent exactly this kind of mistake from occurring. Oh well! Anyway,
the damage had been done, and the car's rear had been badly dented. The giant
piece of plastic, serving both as trunk backwall and bumper, was in a rather
wretched condition. I tried to get the plastic to pop out again by pulling
it outwards like The Hulk, but a few very visible slashes and scratches 
remained.

<pic images/rcc-amex.ps (#2) Amex pays the bill, but won't cover administration fees and parts of the rental company's loss of use demands.>

When we returned the car at the end of our vacation, one and a half weeks
later, I pointed out the damage to the rental car return agents at the airport,
and they politely filled out an incident report form for me, featuring long
columns of numbers, to which I simply added a verbal description of the
incident and my signature. Then, we swiftly proceeded to the departure gate, to
catch our flight home to California. We boarded the plane and flew out,
relieved to have gotten everything over with so quickly -- in order to be
prepared to deal with any unforseen issues without time pressure, we had
arrived at the rental car return place an hour ahead of time.

At home in San Francisco, I pulled up our Amex credit card's insurance web page
at yourrentalcarclaim.com, and it took all of 15 minutes to click through and
submit the claim forms. Shortly after, I received an email, and a day after,
another one, assigning an agent to the case.

Then, nothing happened for three weeks, until a letter arrived via regular
mail, sent by "Viking Billing Services", which started with the words
"You recently rented a Hertz car". Apparently, this was sent by Hertz's 
collection agency, and as you can see in Figure (#1), they asked us to
pay a total of $490.37. A closer look revealed, that the repair of the car 
amounted to $332.98, and on top of that, Hertz charged $72.00 for 
"loss of use", which are rental fees for the repair days the car couldn't
be rented out to other customers, and an "administration fee" of $85.39.

I dialed the phone number listed on the collection agency's letter, got a very
professionally sounding young man on the line and told him that my Amex credit
card would cover the cost. I confirmed my name, my address, and the claim
number I had received from Amex when I reported the incident. That was it! Two
weeks later, we received a letter from Amex, to confirm that of the demanded
$490.37, they had paid exactly $378.03 (Figure (#2)) to Viking. The car repair
of $332.98 they had covered in full. Of the $72.00 charged by Hertz for loss of
use, they paid only $45.05. The remaining $26.95, as well as the
"administration fee" of $85.39 was left for me to pay, just as the Viking agent
had already warned me about that Amex might not cover. So I was stuck with a
total of $112.34, which, when Viking sends me the bill, I will pay by check.

To summarize, I have to say that Amex did a pretty good job resolving the
claim.  Sure, those extra "loss of use" charges and the fishy "administrative
fee" trumped up charges they didn't cover may raise some eyebrows, but at least
I know now that I can rely on the insurance provided by the credit card when
getting a rental car going forward.  I guess that being on the hook for a few
hundred dollars is a calculable risk not only for me, but for most people. The
process seems to work, and proves that the extra collision insurance that is
aggressively being peddled by the car rental agencies is not required at all if
your credit card contract's fine print offers the same insurance.  I have no
intention of ruining another rental car, of course, but it's comforting to know
how to resolve any issues that might arise from the rental process. I'll keep
using my Amex card for future rentals, knowning I'm in good hands if things go
south.

@Z: Smash and Grab

<pic images/smash-grab-glass.ps Another car with a broken window on city streets.>

<em>Angelika</em>San Francisco has been in the news lately with one sad record
after another. The out of control rent spiral has catapulted us past New York
City, now San Francisco is the most expensive city in the United States.  Along
with that, we're also number one in property crime like burglaries and theft.
Lucky for us, the murder rate is lower than in comparable American cities.

New Yorkers have been calling San Francisco "Smash-And-Grab-City" lately,
because no other urban center has more car break ins: Burglars first
smash the side window, then reach into the car an grab whatever's there.
Victims are mostly tourists, who while going on city sightseeing tours, often
leave valuables behind in their cars, unaware of the rampant property crime. 
The rude awakening usually comes very quickly. But even locals, who sometimes
leave items in their parked cars need to be prepared to get their windows
smashed. After all, thieves don't know if a backpack left in the car
actually contains a laptop or just sweaty gym clothes, and steal it
just in case. And there's even reports of break-ins into cars that 
didn't have anything of value inside at all.

It's quite common in San Francisco to see entire lines cars with smashed
windows in the morning. Marauding bums are roaming the city streets during the
night unencumbered, breaking into cars, rifling through the interior and
stealing everything sellable, even low-value items. The official statistics
report 70 break-ins per night on average within city limits, but the inofficial
numbers are probably several times higher because most people have given up on
reporting property crime altogether, because of general and blatent desinterest
by San Francisco's police force (SFPD) in doing anything about it.  That, and
the antiquated and unnecessarily arduous reporting process that only under very
rare circumstances leads to any arrests.

<pic images/please-dont-break.ps This San Francisco Peacenik implores to marauding bums to not break into his Prius.>

How did this car break in epidemic come about? Breaking into cars and
stealing content from within is no doubt profitable for the thieves in the long
run, simply because police hardly ever catches any of them in the act. Also,
residents broadly agree that the so-called "Proposition 47", signed into law in
2014, has been the main driver of the steep rise of brazen breaking and
entering crimes throughout California. The law dictates that non-violent
crimes, such as posession of drugs or theft are to be treated as misdemeanors
instead of felonies.

California prisons are overcrowded and cost vast amounts of tax dollars every
year, so Proposition 47 was meant to reduce the number of inmates. Here's
typical criminal offences covered under Prop 47: Shoplifting or burglary if
items stolen are worth less than $950. Possession of stolen merchandize, if
their value is less than $950. Check fraud if the value of the check is less
than $950, and possession of drugs for personal use. And indeed, statistics
showed that shortly after the law went in effect, the prison overcrowding
problem seemed to go away. In Los Angeles, the number of inmates dropped from
18,601 to 17,285 in 2015. However, as a side effect, crimes like burglaries and
thefts in major cities like San Francisco began to skyrocket.

Although burglars could still be charged under Proposition 47 and sentenced to
up to one year in jail or to pay a fine, in practice it's up to the district
attorney in San Francisco, who often doesn't care and simply won't even take
the case. On top of that, police very rarely catch the perps in the first
place, so residents have pretty much given up on reporting crimes, some even
feel misdirected empathy for the burglars who they assume are poor.  The
situation has become completely hopeless.

The most worrying aspect of the car break-in frenzy in San Francisco is the
rising number of stolen firearms. They're often used shortly after in criminal
activities. Believe it or not, a total of 57 firearms have been reported stolen
since 2015 from parked cars in San Francisco. It's already disturbing to find
out how many people apparently are driving around with firearms in their
vehicles. Some of the victims were law enforcement personel, who were armed as
part of their function.  Three weeks ago, an FBI agent had his gun stolen from
his car while visiting the city. Some of the guns weren't even properly secured
in a locked container, as required by law.  Four murders were committed
recently in San Francisco and the surrounding area, using guns previously stolen
from parked vehicles. The Wild West, indeed.

@Z: SF MoMA Renovated

<pic images/sfmoma-outside.ps The new addition to the SF MoMA looks just like a crumpled bed sheet.>

<em>Angelika</em>
Last weekend, we finally managed to visit the newly renovated San Francisco
Museum of Modern Art, or SF MoMA for short. After a whopping three years
of renovation, it reopened at the end of May 2016. They spent 305 Million
Dollars on the new addition, right behind the old building, which had been
designed by Mario Botta 20 years ago. The addition serves to host new
works by various artists. The Fisher family, founders of the San Francisco
based apparel store GAP, had loaned the museum a total of 1100 
artistic works, but the old building simply didn't have enough space to
put them all on display.

<pic images/sfmoma-tickets.ps Gold members like us receive free entrance tickets for SF MoMA.>

I vividly remember that when we moved to San Francisco almost 20 years
ago, everyone was complaining about the then new SF MoMA building and
what looked like a gigantic ash tray sitting on its roof. 
But in the meantime, it's become an essential part of the skyline
and no one can imagine it not being here anymore. So the new architects
got the offer to design a new building that integrated well with the old
one. The city awarded the Norwegian architect firm Snohetta with 
the contract, and they created a white building which looks a bit like
a crumpled up blanket. But the interior is quite lofty, has a Scandinavian
feel to it and is minimalistic and functional.

<pic images/sfmoma-picture.ps Art lovers admire a painting by Chuck Close.>

<pic images/sfmoma-staircase.ps The interior of the new SF MoMA resembles a Skandinavian furniture store.>

What we liked best is that museum visitors can go outside on 
almost every floor, to enjoy views of the city. Many sculptures decorate
these mezzanines, and one of them features a giant green wall of plants, 
which currently seems to be the hot spot everyone wants their picture
to be taken in front of. Several cafes and restaurants invite even
art sceptics. Aficinados of new art can indulge in works of
Warhol, Lichtenstein, Calder, Rothko, Arbus, and many more.
The entrance fee is $25 per person, children under 18 enjoy free
admission. We've been members of the museum for decades and can go
there free of charge whenever we feel like it. It is open every day
(except Thanksgiving and the 25th of December), unlike other museums
which are closed on Mondays. Swing by when you're in town!

<pic images/sfmoma-rusty-walls.ps Diese rostigen Spiralwände stehen in der rückwärtigen Eingangshalle des Museums.>

@Z: Hawaiian Car Seat Covers

<pic images/seat-covers-amzn.ps Amazon has custom fitted Hawaiian car seat covers.>

<em>Michael</em>Since Angelika is traveling a lot of miles by car on her work
commute every day, and our backup car, Perly Perlman, was decommissioned
recently (<RBLINK>20160229#2</RBLINK>), I purchased a new vehicle for her, a
2011 Honda Fit, which we've nick-named "Brummi". It's a nice, agile commute
mule, and it has the unbeatable advantage that you can fold down the rear bench
and the passenger seat in such a neat way, that even "Catchy the Wavecatcher",
my 9 footer surf board for slow days, fits in with the hatch closed.

The car only has 117 horsepower, but it's so light that I've startled many a
Porsche driver with it when the light switched to green. Okay, at mid range
speeds, the lack of torque due to the small engine is evident and severly lacks
the required oomp, but I've gotten so used to it that I prefer city driving it
to my beloved "Rocket" 1998 Integra GSR, a car preferred by Asian teenagers and
our successor of the legendary Perly Perlman. Its engine its screaming until
8000 rpms, and those 170 horsepower developed during that stage feel like
you're driving the Rallye Monte Carlo.

<pic images/seat-covers-front.ps (#3) Those semi-custom made seat covers fit like a glove.>

It's been a long standing tradition for me to buy the most outragious and
colorful seat covers for our cars possible. This time, my eye caught the
bright red Hawaiian Covers sold by "Totally Covers" on Amazon. While normal
run-off-the-mill seat covers come in one-size-fits-all and fit more or less
on different car seats, this company offers a "semi custom fit" for the
unbeatable price of $99.99 per pair, tailored for the seat size of a specific
car. I just added the make, model, and year of our car to the order, and after
about a week, I received the covers by mail. They came with matching head rest
covers, and the seat parts had the required openings for the side airbags
embedded in the seats to deploy, and even knew about the unusual arm rest on
protruding from the right side of the driver seat in the Honda Fit. Fits like
a glove!

@Z: Top Product: Kathi's Pretzel Mix

<pic images/kath-pretzels-youtube.ps This package contains the ingredients for nine freshly baked German pretzels.>

<em>Michael</em>
As you know, we're living in a dystopian region with regards to availability of
fresh German-style pretzels. In <RBLINK>20080923#6</RBLINK>, I told you
about "Ester's" German bakery in Mountain View, whose pretzels are decent
when they come straight out of the oven, but have typically exceeded their
expiration date when they arrive in stores in San Francisco. They're on
sale at the local alternative supermarket "Rainbow", but you have to 
be pretty heavily pretzel deprived to pay nine dollars for five stale
pretzels. Yet, I take the plunge every now and then.

<pic images/kathi-pretzels-raw.ps Home baker Michael elegantly slings the pretzel dough into shape.>

You can find American style pretzels in shopping malls, sold at shops like
"Auntie Anne's", but I wouldn't eat their yeasty squishy pretzels even if
they paid me to. Baking crunchy German pretzels requires a hot oven and
special browning lye, which is only sold to licenced individuals in the U.S.,
because it is actually poisonous if not baked thoroughly.
Lacking fresh, proper, professionally-made pretzels in the Bay Area, I went out
to research alternative production methods, and found that the
"World Market" chain of supermarkets is selling a do-it-yourself kit labeled 
"Kathi's Pretzel Mix". It contains a flour mix, yeast, coarse salt, and
some lye powder, to be turned into baking lye by adding water. 
I purchased the kit in Daly City, a few miles south of our place, and 
started baking.

<pic images/kathi-pretzels-done.ps After 20 minutes, the freshly baked crunchy pretzels come out of the oven.>

In a 
<LINK>https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E164UUBY8Hk|pretzel-baking Youtube-Video</LINK> I published the results of the procedure, Angelika was holding
the camera in our kitchen while I kneaded and shaped the dough, and pushed 
the raw pretzels in the oven.

The whole procedure, including resting of the dough and baking time in the
oven, takes about two hours, the video cuts it down to 10 minutes, illustrating
only the most important steps. The pretzel mix costs about $6, and provides
enough raw ingredients for about nine pretzels. So far, I've baked pretzels
on three different occasions, and my skills of kneading the dough and 
shaping perfect pretzels is steadily improving. The secret is to stretch
out the dough into really thin and long lines, making sure the pretzels
don't come off the baking sheet doughy and soft but slim and crunchy, just
like they sell them at bakery shops in Bavaria. Take a look, and study 
the process, there's lots to pick up!

@Z: California: Minimum Wage and Birth Control Pills
<pic images/jerry-brown.ps California's governor Jerry Brown Foto: flickr[Steve Rhodes|ari/8162162174]>

<em>Angelika</em> We just went through the last phase of the presidential
primary elections here in the United States, while scratching our heads upon
the fact that Donald Trump won the Republican mandate. At the same time, our
California governor, Jerry Brown, has signed two different pieces of legislation,
which many consider to be pretty progressive, compared to other states. 
One raises the minimum wage in California, currently at $10/hour, to $15 in 2022.
Individual states can set the minimum wage independently, as long as it is higher 
than the federal minimum, which is $7.25/hour. Cities and counties in turn can
ask for more than their state requires. In this way, the minimum wage in
San Francisco currently is at $12.25/hour, starting July this year it is going
up to $13, and will reach $15 in 2018, four years before the state sets this
amount. The state of New York, always in an arms race with California, also
decided to raise the minimum wage to $15/hour.

<pic images/wg-front.ps Pharmacy chain Walgreens recently started carrying over-the-counter birth control pills.>

Another new bill signed by Jerry Brown enables women in California, regardless
of age, to get access to birth control pills after a short consultation with
the pharmacist, without requiring a prescription by a doctor. As reported on
previously, in the U.S., pharmacies selling prescription drugs are often
integrated with major drug store and supermarket chains. Similar laws covering
access to birth control pills already exist in the States of Washington,
Oregon, and Washington D.C.. The idea behind it is to avoid unwanted
pregnancies. This might not sound spectacular, but in the traditionally rather
prude and conservative U.S., the new law is a small sensation.

<pic images/wg-shelf.ps Birth control pills aren't available on the shelf, but the new law allows sales through the pharmacy window in the back.>

What's noteworthy about all this is how Jerry Brown used his pragmatism and
negotiation skills to push through many democratic agenda items in
California. This worked, because he cleverly took advantage of a democratic
majority in the California State Senate -- compare that to Barack Obama, who
totally missed out on this opportunity during his first term, by not acting
while he still had a democratic majority in both chambers of Congress.  Jerry
Brown gives indeed hope that there's not only crazy polititians in this
country playing to the gallery while producing nothing but
hot air. Jerry Brown's term ends in 2018, and according to California law, he can't run
for another one, as since 1990, California only allows two terms per governor,
for a total of eight years. But by then, he'll be 80 years old, and might want
to retire anyway.

@Z: The $800 Pimple Balm
 
<pic images/pimple-creme.ps This pimple-fighting balm costs $800 a piece.>

<em>Angelika</em>Strangely, even at my fairly advanced age, my skin is still
behaving as if I was a teenager going through puberty. For this reason, my
dermatologist recently prescriped a balm named "Tazorac", which keeps pimples
in check. But, when I wanted to fill the prescription at Walgreen's, the person
there told me that our health insurance would only pay for it when prescribed to
patients under the age of 30. Well, bummer, that doesn't apply anymore! So
I carefully inquired about the cost if I had to pay for it out of pocket, and
the pharmacist told me without hesitation: "800 Dollars".

Welcome to Absurdistan! The balm apparently also contains an ingredient to fight
wrinkles, and that's the reason why our health insurance company puts it into the
"beauty" category for patients who are at an age when wrinkles could be an issue.

And, for this reason, patients must pay for it out of pocket! But, come on, $800 for a small
tube of balm? That's just plain crazy! Our pharmacist explained that the balm is a brand
name item, an not a generic product, which are more reasonably priced. And our
health insurance suggested a number of alternative products. But I'm not a fan
of treating minor issues with potent pharmaceuticals anyway, so I'll go ahead and try
treating my skin with a few natural products made by Dr. Hauschka. 
They're downright bargains in comparison.

TODO

@Z: Surfen mit Kind

<pic images/surf-with-kids-2.ps Der kleine Surfer scheint begeistert.>

<em>Angelika</em>
Uns zog es einmal wieder mal nach Oahu dieses Jahr.  Traditionelles Surfen ist
dort immer noch in. Solange die Inseln weiter bestehen, wird dort gesurft
werden. Aber alle paar Jahre gibt es einen neuen Trend, wenn es um den
hawaiianschen Wassersport geht. Zunächst kamen die Kitesurfer, die zu
Michaels Unmut kreuz und quer mit ihren riesigen Fallschirmen im Ozean
herumrasen. Es gibt sie zwar immer noch, aber die Popularität des Sports
scheint auf Hawaii schon wieder abzuklingen. Zum Segen der Schwimmer, die sich
immer der Gefahr aussetzen, dass ein Kitesurfer seinen Fallschirm nicht
beherrscht und auf sie plumpsen lässt.  Dann kamen die Standup-Paddleboarder,
die ihr Surfbrett zum Paddelboot umfunktionierten und sich auf dem Brett
stehend mit Hilfe eines Paddels vorwärts bewegten. Diese Methode der
Fortbewegung hat in Hawaii zugegebener Maßsen eine sehr lange Tradition, aber
erlebt in den letzten Jahren ein regelrechtes Comeback bei Leuten, 
die zu unsportlich zum richtigen Surfen sind.

<pic images/surf-with-kids-1.ps Auch zwei Kinder gleichzeitig gehen auf ein Surfbrett.>

Die neueste Gaudi leisten sich Familienväter mit Kleinstkindern, die selber
noch kein Surfbrett oder Boogieboard manövrieren können. Dabei sitzt das Kind
auf dem vorderen Teil des Bretts und der Vater oder die Mutter stellen sich auf
das Brett, wenn die Welle kommt und lenken das Surfbrett mit Kind dann durch
das Wasser. Ich beobachtete das völlig fasziniert vom Strand aus, denn die
Kinder waren in der Regel noch im Windelalter. Aber in Hawaii wird man
bekanntlich mit dem Surfbrett geboren und früh übt sich, wer ein Meister in
dieser Disziplin werden will. Sogar bei uns zuhause ist
Michael mittlerweile bestimmt drei-, viermal die Woche an unserem
Hausstrand in Pacifica, surft wie ein Weltmeister und fühlt sich
bereits wie auf Hawaii.

Aloha aus San Francisco!

Angelika und Michael
