San Francisco, 10/30/2016

@Z: Driving Nails into Drywall

<pic images/drywall.ps (#4) Wooden studs with bolted on slates of drywall build the skeleton of most American houses. Foto: flickr[sharpshooter99|sharpshooter99/4684393642]>

<em>Michael</em> In Germany, to put a picture frame up on the wall, renters
break out the hammer drill, to go through common brick walls like butter, then
insert a plastic anchor in the hole and a screw, and up goes the frame, solid
as a rock, forever and a day, regardless of what happens around it. Not so in
America, where most houses aren't made of bricks, but built by nailing
half-inch-thick slates of drywall onto wooden 2x4 studs and calling the result
"house" (figure (#4)).  You might think I'm pulling your leg here, but that's
the honest truth. It's done this way mostly because it's cheap, but in the San
Francisco Bay Area it's actually a safety measure, because of the constant
earthquakes. Wood is flexible and bounces back, while bricks crumble and crush
occupants.

You can imagine what happens to a picture frame hanging by a single nail
sticking in a half-inch thick cardboard: It won't last long on the wall and
will drop sooner or later when the nail loses its grip. Living in such a
house of cards, instead of simply driving the nail into the drywall, you need
to find the vertical wooden stud the drywall was nailed onto, to drive the
nail through the drywall and right into the wooden stud, where it sits
rock-solid. But how do you find these studs, which are hidden invisibly in
the wall, spaced out with 16 inches in between them? You can't look through
the drywall, obviously, but this is the country of great inventions, which is
why you can find gadgets at every hardware store to solve the problem.

<pic images/studfinder.ps Electric (upper picture) and magnetic (lower picture) stud finders.>

So-called "stud finders" probe the wall and light up when they detect a stud
inside. The electrical variant works similar to a metal detector and starts
blinking if the location is suitable for driving in a nail or screw. However,
less commonly known, but a lot cheaper and even more effective are magnetic
variants of the tool.  They make use of the fact that studs usually contain
metal nails spaced out evently, after all, someone must have nailed drywall
sheets onto them when the house was built. These magnetic tools don't need a
battery, they simply use a strong magnet which gets pulled towards metal in
the wall, making the tool stick to the wall in locations where there's both a
nail and a stud underneath.  Genius! And it's very handy if you want to mark
the stud location with a pencil on the wall. Since you don't know how far the
nails are up or down the stud, drawing S-figures with the tool will sooner or
later reveal a nail, and therefore the location of the stud it was hammered
into.  Now another nail or screw can be hammered into the wall above or below
the trigger location and it is then guaranteed to land in the sturdy stud and
not some loose piece of drywall.

I can recommend two devices I've had good success with: The Franklin
ProSensor 710+ is quite expensive at \$50, and therefore only within reach
for high rollers like myself, but I like its row of LEDs and how some of
them light up in a moving pattern while you move over the wall, indicating
where the stud is located at. But really all you need is a magnetic
stud finder which only costs around \$10, like the "CH Hanson 03040". As
the tool sticks to the wall when it finds a nail, you can use its sides as
a ruler while you mark the position with a pencil, or start drilling right
away. Stay away from devices made by "Zircon", I've found that they give
lots of false positives and the correlation between the device blinking
and a stud being present is random at best.

@Z: Miracle Balm Aquaphor
 
<pic images/aquaphor-balm.ps The Miracle Balm which lets wounds heal faster.>

<em>Michael</em> When our dermatologist recently cut out a mole next to my
hairline and left an astonishing big hole, she also handed me a sample package
with some balm, and told me to apply it to the wound a few times a day. I
followed the instructions to the letter and witnessed with surprise that the
hole healed within a few days in such an amazing way so that I could hardly
tell where it had been before.

"I'll be damned", I thought to myself, "that must be a new miracle balm, could
it be, that after thousands of years of ongoing research in the field of balms
and ointments, we're now all of a sudden lucky to witness a significant medical
breakthrough?" It certainly seems like it, because when I recently fell off
my skateboard, and routinely swiveled around in the air like a cat to land on
all four paws, and suffered a bad scratch on the palm of my hand, I immediately
applied the miracle balm to it when I got home. Three days later, the wound had 
healed perfectly without leaving a scar. This new killer ointment simply blows
regular American balms like "Neosporen" right out of the water. It's called
"Aquaphor" and it is not only recommended by leading dermatologists, but also
by myself with my somewhat, erm, active lifestyle. Rumor has it that Aquaphor
is made by a German company, well, what a surprise!

@Z: Poke Invasion

<pic images/poke-bowl-stand.ps A tiny Poke booth on Market St in San Francisco.>

<em>Angelika</em>
A while ago, we reported on a traditional Hawaiian raw fish dish, called
"Poke" (<RBLINK>20130921#6</RBLINK>), which is so common on the islands that
every supermarket offers it in their fish section. Apparently, word has gotten
out that Poke is delicious and even healthy, and still has a touch of
exotic flavor, as Poke places are popping up like mushrooms in San Francisco.
In our close neighborhood alone, there's two new shops offering "Poke Bowls".
Those are tiny places, comparable to mom and pop takeout places in Germany.
Seating is strictly limited, and there's no table service, instead customers
order directly at the counter.

<pic images/poke-bowl-2.ps A Poke bowl with salad.>

This particular location let us customize our Poke bowl. Traditionally, on
Hawaii, it comes with a bed of rice, topped with the raw marinated fish. When
we ordered Poke bowls at "Poke Delish" in the Castro neighborhood, we were able
to choose between rice or salad, and three different kinds of fish in
combination with various sauces. Up to three different selections were
permitted, and finally various toppings, like green onions, sea weed salad,
pickled ginger, flying fish roe (Tobiko) and Edamame. We both enjoyed our Poke
bowls! I'm not sure how many Poke locations can coexist in the city while still
making a profit, and how long the trend will continue. But even if it goes out
of style one day, we'll still have Hawaii, where Poke is part of the culture
and will live on forever.

@Z: Parking Fees in Las Vegas
 
<pic images/las-vegas-flight.ps Boarding the Friday night party jet to Las Vegas.>

<em>Angelika</em> Attentive readers of this publication already know  that many
many years ago, Michael and I met in a car rental agency in Las Vegas, and
since this year we're celebrating a very special anniversary, we returned to
the glamorous city in the desert on this occasion. Las Vegas has been
constantly reinventing itself over the years, and therefore has changed quite a
bit from the olden days.  Yesteryear's cheap hotel paradise with
all-you-can-eat buffets galore made room for luxury resorts and gourmet
restaurants. Of course, there's still plenty of casinos around, but those
apparently aren't the gold mines they used to be anymore, and so the
entertainment industry tycoons there have invented new ways to separate
tourists from their hard earned dollars.

<HTMLONLY>
<pic images/las-vegas-airport.ps Arriving at Las Vegas air port at midnight.>
</HTMLONLY>

There's an ongoing theme in the money-grubbing game played by the casinos
lately, and it's to take money for the most ridiculous things. You might be
familiar with this scheme when flying major US airlines: Paying for checked in
luggage, extra fees for seats with more leg room, non-free meals on domestic
flights, or paying for the privilege to pick your own seat on international
Lufthansa flights to avoid getting assigned a random one. But who wants to be
squeezed into the middle seat of a row of five on a 12 hour flight? There's
lots of moaning and gnashing of teeth, but in the end, customers pay up.

<pic images/las-vegas-vdara-night.ps Room with a view in the Las Vegas Vdara hotel.>
<pic images/las-vegas-lyft.ps Las Vegas hotels introduced extra lanes for Uber and Lyft rideshare services.>

Most hotels on the Las Vegas Strip have been charging the so-called resort fee
for quite a while now. They're slapping between $20 and $32 per night onto the
room bill without actually providing value for the customer, because hardly
anyone uses the pool, the fitness center oder the spa. And guests have no
choice anyway, because the fee is mandatory for all guests, whether they ever set
foot in those areas or not. Hotels could of course just as well add the fee to the
published price for the room per night, but they'd rather advertise a lower
price and then add hidden fees when customers click to buy.

<pic images/vdara-valet.ps A valet parking ticket for the Vdara hotel in Las Vegas.>
 
My guess is that major Las Vegas Casinos are employing armies of bean counters whose
only job it is to invent new fees for guests who grudgingly just pay them because
they have no other choice. And, low and behold, last time we were in Las
Vegas in September, the first Casinos started charging for parking. Until
then, the Casino mantra appeared to be to focus on attracting
as many guests as possible, by making their arrival as easy and swift
as possible. Both valet and self parking were free of charge for that reason.

<pic images/las-vegas-view.ps Paying extra scores guests a room with a view.>

Since June 2016 guests have been paying between $8 and $10 per day for self parking,
and $13-$18 for valet parking at the MGM group casinos Aria, Bellagio, Circus
Circus, Exalibur, Delano, Luxor, Mandaley Bay, MGM Grand, Mirage, Monte Carlo,
New York New York, and Vdara. On self parking, the first hour is free, however,
until now. Also, residents of Nevada get a free pass until the end of this year.
It remains to be seen if other casinos follow suit, like those of the Wynn group.
I'm afraid that they will. As we've seen with air travel luggage fees, it's
always the competitor with low advertised prices and hidden fees that makes the deal.

@Z: Raku Las Vegas
 
<pic images/raku-las-vegas.ps An excellent Japanese restaurant in Las Vegas.>

<em>Angelika</em>As you know, we are great fans of Japanese cuisine. I personally
could eat sushi or other Japanese delicacies every single day, to the point
where Michael readily complains: "Sushi, again?!" Now, we are somewhat
spoiled with an abundance of sushi or Japanese homecooking available
in San Francisco, and restaurants in Las Vegas are hopelessly overpriced. This
is why we're often drawn to off-strip locations during our yearly visit, as
these restaurants in different Las Vegas neighborhoods offer better food quality
for the price.

Michael's colleague at work had been raving about a Japanese place called
<LINK>http://raku-grill.com/grill/index.htm|Raku</LINK>, located in an undescript 
mall on Spring Mountain Road in the Spring Valley neighborhood. We had to try 
it out and took a Lyft cab for the 10 minute ride. Raku offers an excellent
variety of delicacies, mainly scewers from a wood-fired grill (yakitori),
sashimi, but also home made tofu. We had grilled pork cheek scewers, raw
kobe beef liver, a poached egg with Uni (sea urchin), and ikura (salmon roe).
Raku isn't exactly cheap either, but the amazing quality of all dishes served
was well worth every penny. It's still mouth watering when I'm thinking about
it now.

@Z: Skateboarding at Old Age

<pic images/skate-meter.ps Michael is still riding a skateboard at his age.>

<em>Michael</em>
Every Thursday during lunch break, our entire department takes off to go eat
at a different cafeteria, every team member riding on a skateboard, closely
following our manager through various Silicon Valley parking lots and side
streets. As you might know, I'm always game when it comes to fun activities,
even at my advanced age, so I spent $100 on a so-called longboard at a skate
shop and have been participating in Thursdays' lunch ride.

Many many years ago, as a teenager, I had aquired a skateboard, ironically
priced at 100 Deutsch Marks, and therefore I already knew the dangers of
rolling on asphalt: Stray small pebbles can lock up the wheels, bumps can make
you loose your balance and let the board swoosh away from right under you, and
before you know it, you've landed hard on the street, on your hands and knees.
In comparison, surfing in the ocean is much softer when you fall, hitting
concrete can be downright dangerous and very painful. I learned that despite
the dangers, it is a total no-no in California to wear any kind of protective
gear, even kids hitting the half pipes in the skate parks have totally
abandoned the once popular helmets or knee, wrist, and elbow pads.

<pic images/skateboard-mount.ps My skateboard is mounted on the wall and always ready to go.>

<pic images/skate-24th.ps Reckless skateboarder bombing down Noe Valley's 24th Street.>

Thursday mornings, I often ride my skateboard to the company shuttle bus stop
in San Francisco, which is about half a mile from our place. First, there's a
steep downhill on 24th Street, where I carry the board, although I've seen a
few clearly insane people just bombing down in traffic. Our city has specific
traffic laws for skateboarders, according to
<LINK>http://sf-ca.elaws.us/code/trco_di_art7_secs7.2_gid92244_sec7.2.13|the San Francisco traffic code</LINK>,
skateboards fall into the "NUV" category,
meaning "Non-motorized User-propelled Vehicles", a device with "two or more
wheels lacking a belt, chain, or gears", which is being propelled forward by
"pushing off or kicking at the ground" (Figure (#3)).

<pic images/sftc.ps (#3) There's special sections in traffic law dealing with skateboards.>

Furthermore, section 7.2.13 lines out that it is illegal to ride a skateboard
in "business districts", or, in general, all over the city later than half an
hour after sunset. Aside from those exceptions, skateboarding is legal on the
sidewalk, the bike lane, and even on the street, under the condition that
there's no "endangering the safety of people or property".

<pic images/skateboard-bttf.ps Like in the "Back to the Future" movie, some skateboarders in San Francisco hang on to driving cars.>

Unfortunately, many skateboarders here don't obey the law, bombing down
steep hills in the middle of night in dark clothing, using private
building structures as ramps, or clinging onto driving cars, hiding
close to the rear wheel well, so that drivers won't notice -- just
like Michael J. Fox in the movie "Back to the Future". 

<pic images/boosted-boards.ps The company "Boosted Boards" advertises their motorized skateboards featuring urban hipster youth.>

And since we're living in the most innovative place on earth here, there's no
surprise that skateboard technology has advanced even further: For quite some
time now, hipster youth can be seen zooming around on battery powered "Boosted
Boards". Riders hold a remote control to accelerate the motor or apply the
brakes.  At about 20mph, they gain almost frightening speed, can climb up
hills, and it's even possible to comply with traffic rules when coming to a
complete halt at stop signs and to effortlessly and quickly accelerate again
shortly after.  Ironically, I've heard on public forums recently that these
electric board riders are complaining about being ostracized and yelled at by
motorists and even normal skateboard riders. Apparently this new mode of
transportation is considered to be hipsterish and unsportsmanlike.

@Z: Why Greencard and not Citizenship?

<pic images/greencard.ps The coveted Greencard: A precursor to citizenship? Foto: flickr[Vitor Leite|vixon/77040361]>0

<em>Michael</em> If you ask ten Americans if Greencard holders pay taxes,
I'll bet you that seven will answer "no", because they're completely
retarded. I'm not sure why it's not common knowledge that everyone living in
the US for more than six months must pay taxes here, just like ordinary
Americans, and not only on their US income, but on their world wide earnings!
Now, if taxes are the same, what's the difference between Greencard holders
and citizens?

After all, a Greencard holder can stay in the country indefinitely and may
work in any job with any employer -- except those that require special
security clearance and citizenship, e.g. with the department of defence.
After ten years, a Greencard will expire, but it can simply be renewed to the
tone of a $450 processing fee.

A real bad downside of being a Greencard holder as opposed to being a citizen
is that the card actually becomes invalid once the holder stays abroad for
more than a year without getting special permission from the immigration
department, which might extend the permissable stay abroad to at most two
years.  Naturalized citizens, in comparison, can come and go as they please.

<pic images/us-passport.ps Citizens show their U.S. passport internationally as ID. Photo: flickr[jpmatth|jpmatth/1700844049]>

Another disadvantage for Greencard holders compared to citizens are different
tax exemptions as a heir of financial assets or real estate.  Admittedly,
this only affects wealthy families, as heirs with citizenship only have to
pay the so-called
<LINK>http://www.nolo.com/legal-encyclopedia/estate-planning-when-you-re-married-noncitizen.html|estate tax</LINK>
if the total value exceeds roughly five and a half million dollars
($5,450,000 to be exact).  Marrieds couples can even double that amount if
they pass on their wealth to another citizen. If one passing citizen passes
assets on to their spouse, the tax-free amount is even unlimited. But watch
out, if the spouse is a Greencard holder without citizenship, they'll totally
pay estate tax on amounts exceeding $5.45M! Gifting during lifetime is
subject to even stricter rules.  A Greencard holder can "only" receive
amounts up to $148,000 per year tax free (as of 2016), and will pay taxes on
anything exceeding this amount. Long story short: If a married couple has
more than five Million Dollars lying around, they should definitely become
citizens, otherwise death will cost more than their lives!

On top of that, Greencard holders cannot vote or sit on jury duty. If a request
comes in by mail, citizens are required to spring into action and are heading
towards the justice building, while Greencard holders may remain seated on the couch,
while sending back the letter with the appropriate box checked
(<RBLINK>20020917#5</RBLINK>).

Greencard holders are obligated, however, to join the United States army in
times of war. Personally, I've been known as a jarhead since my army days, and
I would no doubt instill great fear into the enemy, even nowadays, at my
advanced age.  After seven years, Greencard holders are required to submit
income tax declarations for ten years to the United States IRS, even if they
decide to go back to their home country or move somewhere else at some point.
This is even true for citizens, by the way: Regardless of which country they
decide to relocate to, the United States IRS requires yearly income tax
declarations, listing meticulously what was earned and where taxes were paid.
Indefinitely.

<HTMLONLY>
<pic images/reentry-permit.ps Greencard holders are allowed to stay abroad for up to two years with a so-called reentry permit.>
</HTMLONLY>

Then there are legal situations where a US citizen enjoys better protection
than a Greencard holder, for example when a married couple uses a surrogate
mother to have a child. In Germany, this practice is illegal, in the United
States, it is legal, so obtaining US citizenship provides the required legal
framework.  Or take the case where a same sex couple wants to adopt a child.
This doesn't work yet in Germany, but it is common place in the United States.
As soon as the couple obtains US citizenship, however, German bureaucrats will
change their minds and accept the adoption.

If German citizens decide to become US citizens, for what reasons whatsoever,
they should file a request to keep their German citizenship before applying.
Why? As soon as German officials find out that one of their own citizens has
obtained a foreign citizenship, they'll abruptly cut their ties with them by
relentlessly stripping them off their German passport.  But if the applicant
filed to keep their German citizenship beforehand, the German consulate might
agree that taking away the German passport would be an undue burden on the
applicant, e.g. because they still have strong ties to their home country or
apply for the foreign citizenship because their job requires it, and therefore
have no choice. Assuming the German consulate says "ja" to keep, and Uncle
Sam says "yes" to obtain the new citizenship, the newborn American will
carry two passports from then on, using the appropriate one to enter either
country.

There's one more catch, though: As soon as a German citizen obtains US
citizenship, regardless of whether they were permitted to keep their German
passport or not, the German consulate will no longer help out these hybrid
Germans when they get in trouble in the US. Regular German citizens can always
count on calling the consulate, day or night, if they need help, but the consul
refuses to help US citizens. And according to rumors (some of which I might
have started circulating myself), he will instead return a post card with a
humorous motive and the imprint "Good luck with that, buddy."

@Z: Third Party Candidates: Gary Johnson / Jill Stein

<pic images/gary-johnson.ps Liberal Gary Johnson is running in the presidential race alongside Clinton and Trump. Photo: flickr[Gage Skidmore|gageskidmore/16484996670]>

<em>Angelika</em> It's commonly known that there's a two party system in
American politics. There's Democrats, currently represented by Hillary Clinton,
and Donald Trump, running for the Republican party. But candidates of both
partes are polling at an all time low in public opinion.

Many voters who have been supporting Republicans for many years, regardless of
who was running at the time, cannot get themselves to vote for Donald Trump,
but don't want to see Hillary Clinton move to the White House either. You can
imagine that this is quite a dilemma. On the other hand, there's many Democrats
who dislike Hillary Clinton, but would under no circumstances vote for
Donald Trump. What to do? These voters can choose between either staying
home, to forfeit their voting rights, or give their vote to one of the
third party candidates Gary Johnson or Jill Stein, neither of whom has any
chance of winning the presidency. Also, votes for these candidates decrease
the number of votes for the mainstream candidates Hillary Clinton and
Donald Trump, so third party voters can dramatically influence the outcome
of the election. In the end, it's a form of protest to vote for a
third party candidate in the United States.

Gary Johnson used to be republican governor of the state of New Mexico,
but now decided to run as a Libertarian. He wants to get rid of income
tax and Obamacare, is aiming for a balanced budget and reducing the
influence of government. He is also opposed to both U.S. military in foreign
countries and regulating the Internet.

Jill Stein, who is a doctor, running for the Green Party, focuses on
environmental topics: renewable energy, build out of public transportation.

As I've said before, none of these alternative candidates will even have the
tiniest chance of winning, but both remind me of the debacle with Ralph Nader
back in 2000, when, in all likelihood, Nader's campaign as an outsider cost Al
Gore the election. Nader received critical votes in Florida needed by Gore,
propelling the republican George W. Bush into office.

@Z: Good TV: Charlie Rose

<pic images/charlie-rose.ps On KQED, Charlie Rose questions celebrities at a dimly lit table.>

<em>Angelika</em>TV debates between Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump are
agonizing to watch. Both of them keep repeating the same old sound bites,
Clinton maybe a bit more nuanced, but they're still insufferable. It is as if
the entire country has been taken over by loudmouths who don't have enough
material to debate a given topic for more than two minutes.

But there's still hope, as since 1991, journalist Charlie Rose has been
procuding a moderating the "Charlie Rose" talkshow. Public television
station PBS ("Public Broadcasting Service) and Bloomberg TV are airing the
show Monday through Friday. Usually, Rose spends about an hour talking to a guest, sometimes it's even two or three. He invites all kinds of people,
politicians, Nobel Prize winners, doctors, athletes, authors, actors, or
musicians. Last week, for example, he had Jeff Bezos (Founder of Amazon),
golf player Tiger Woods, actress Sarah Jessica Parker, conservative
opinion piece writer Glenn Beck and Prince Zeid Ra’ad Al Hussein of Jordan.

You'd be mistaken if you assumed all that was happenting was
superficial chit-chat. Rose asks smart questions and his guests usually
provide thoughtful answers. Also, the format is quite diametrically different
from typical talk shows, where people keep yelling and speak out of turn. 
Instead, Charlie Rose and the guest are sitting on opposite sides of a
round oak table, with a pitch dark backdrop, and focus on their dialogue.

There's nothing except these no-frills requisites, the oak table and the dark
backdrop, which have since become the trademark of the show. The set was
originally designed this way for rather pragmatic reasons, however, because
Rose had very little production money available in the beginning and simply
purchased the table himself. For myself, I can say that I entirely enjoy
almost every episode and can only warmly recommend the show to others.

@Z: Cut the Cord

<pic images/tv-back.ps (#1) The ball of wires behind our TV.>

<em>Michael</em>
The Bay Area cable TV de facto monopolist Comcast, known for continuously
hiking their montly fees, has lately drawn some consumer criticism. They're
offering Internet and cable TV service as low as $50 for new customers, only
to increase the price to $150 six months later. You've got that right,
Americans are paying $150 per month for Internet and cable access, while it's 
often less than $50 in Europe. It's the result decades of failed politics,
granting a price gouging monopolistic company free reign, as we've outlined
in a previous issue (<RBLINK>20101219#1</RBLINK>).

<HTMLONLY>
<pic images/cut-the-cord-kindle-books.ps Lots of books on Amazon to cut ties with the cable provider.>
</HTMLONLY>

But there's a growing number of Americans who are fed up with overpaying for
cable, who've set out to cut ties with their providers, under the banner "Cut
the Cord". That's not hard to do, as aside from cable, Internet can be had
through the telephone as DSL, or via a separate fiber line, and even for cable
TV there are a few perfectly legal options without going through monopolistic
providers like Comcast.

There's a steady inflow on Amazon of books dealing with guides to
"Cut the Cord", and even my hygienist recently quizzed me about the
possibilities while polishing my choppers. As many of our readers know,
I'm usually ahead of the technical curve, compared to the rest of mankind
by two, three years, and have indeed discontinued cable service three years
ago. Ever since then, whenever I drive by our Comcast store, I give them
a nice wave and burst out laughing.

But luckily, we're located here directly in the eye of a technology hurricane,
with plenty of hungry whippersnappers constantly inventing new gadgets, trying
to blow dinosaurs like Comcast out of the water. It is indeed quite simple to
legally receive free TV programs in the Bay Area. Today, I'm going to open the
curtain to show how this is working for us. First off, there's local TV
stations, broadcasting evening news and maybe a baseball game, or political
content on stations like KQED who make TV programs with balanced reports and
interviews for the few people around here who haven't completely lost their
minds yet.

<pic images/tv-tivo.ps The TiVo box is automatically recording over-the-air TV. (#2)>

Apparently because receiving TV programs is some form of basic human right,
select broadcasting stations offer their programs as digital TV through the
airwaves, sent to the users' home antennas (OTA=Over the Air). Just like in
Germany with DVB-T this isn't your grampa's snowy TV reception, with scrolling
pictures, requiring the occasional signature whack onto the top TV with the
flat hand to stop. OTA is digital, so it either works perfectly or not at all.
As you might know, our location in San Francisco is very close a widely visible
broadcasting antenna called "Sutro Tower", at the top of the "Twin Peaks"
hill close to the geographic center of the city. After rummaging through
Amazon's antenna section and reading the reviews, I finally settled for one
that cost $80, and placed it behind our TV (Abbildung (#1). The reception is
quite good, not only from stations broadcasted from Sutro Tower, but also those
coming in from San Bruno, which is 20 miles further south.

<HTMLONLY>
<pic images/sling-twitter.ps The Sling servers collapse due to increased demand during the semi finals at the Soccer Euro Cup.>
</HTMLONLY>

Now, as a self-respecting person with a job, without lots of idle time to
lounge on the couch all day long, you might find watching TV in the U.S. very
annoying and a waste of your personal time, since the stations keep
interrupting their programs every few minutes to broadcast commercials. For this
reason, if you decide to cut the cord, the first thing you need is a digital
video recorder to tape programs and skip over commercials at the push of a
button. I've been using a so-called TiVo since it came out about 16 years ago,
and have been a loyal customer until today, even upgrading to a newer "TiVo
Roamio" a few years ago, an astounding machine with six separate TV tuners all
able to record programs on different channels at the same time (Figure (#2)).

<pic images/sling-laptop.ps Advanced setup to stream ESPN to the Laptop, from where it is sent to the TV.>

TODO

Der Kiste teilt man mit, welche Sendungen man aufzeichnen möchte, und muss
dafür nicht etwa jedes Mal die Uhrzeit einstellen, sondern man gibt nur den
Titel vor, die Kiste sucht dann selbständig im Fernsehprogramm wann und
wo diese Sendung oder auch Serien oder die täglichen Nachrichten laufen
und nimmt sie alle auf. Man sieht also niemals mehr live fern, sondern kommt
heim und hat 20 Sendungen zur Auswahl, die der TiVo den lieben langen Tag
für einen zusammengesucht hat.

<pic images/roku-tagesschau.ps (#5) Das Roku-Kästlein pumpt mittels App die deutsche Tagesschau ins Wohnzimmmer.>

Um nicht völlig zu verblöden, und auch um auf dem Laufenden zu bleiben mit
dem, was im fernen Deutschland so abgeht, sehen wir uns übrigens auch
jeden Tag die Tagesschau an. Der Roku, eine kleine Settop-Box so ähnlich
wie ein AppleTV (den wir natürlich neben einem Amazon Fire ebenfalls 
angeschlossen haben), zieht die 8-Uhr Tagesschau innerhalb von 10 Sekunden
auf Abruf als Stream ins Wohnzimmer (Abbildung (#5)).

<pic images/tagesschau.ps Deutsche Politkasper wie der Hase Cäsar von den Grünen kommen auch in San Francisco in der Tagesschau.>

Bei sovielen Gadgets im Fernsehschrank fällt natürlich immer mal eines
aus, und damit auch Angelika, die sich mit dem Kabelverhau hinter
den Kulissen nicht so gut
auskennt, zielgerichtet ein bestimmtes Gerält aus- und wieder einschalten kann,
habe ich wie in einem Tonstudio vorne eine Schalterleiste mit zehn 
Schaltern angebracht, die ordnungsgemäß mit einem Labeldrucker beschriftet
sind. Mittlerweile hängt hinter jedem Schalter ein Gerät, und wenn Angelika
mal wieder motzt, dass dies oder jenes nicht geht, und wieso ich schon wieder
etwas perfekt funktionierendes durch ein noch auf wackeligen Füßen
stehendes brandneues Produkt aus der Schmiede des Silicon Valley 
ersetzen musste, erwidere ich: "The only constant is change!". 

Grüße aus dem Land der nimmermüden Erfinder:

Angelika und Michael
