San Francisco, 12-22-2016

@Z: Trump Special

<pic images/trump-landing.ps Hardly any news program comes without news about Donald Trump.>

<em>Angelika</em> After Trump's victory, many people in San Francisco and
California, where over 60% of voters cast their ballots for Hillary Clinton are
in a kind of shock. On Wednesday morning after the election on November 10th,
the election result was the topic of conversation everywhere. During
parent-teacher conferences at my social groups, I had to let each person get
rid of a comment about the election before we could talk about the children and
their progress. Of course you've seen the German news and read the newspapers
about the demonstrations all over the US, so I won't go into that and instead
focus on some lesser-known events.

For example, when the USA map kept turning red on Tuesday evening and Trump's victory became
more evident, the website of the Canadian immigration authority
crashed, as many US citizens simultaneously inquired about immigration
possibilities to Canada. As they say, 'Onward to the northern neighbor and away
from Trumpistan.'

<pic images/noe-valley-flag.ps An internet troll hoists the Nazi flag with a swastika on his million-dollar bunker in our neighborhood.>

A few blocks from our apartment a neighbor had suddenly hoisted a swastika flag
on the roof of his house. The owner, 48-year-old Frederick Roeber, is a retired
software engineer who worked at companies like Netscape and Google in the 90s,
earning himself a furtune to retire early. He wanted to protest "ironically"
against Trump with the action, but it all went downhill because no one
understood his intentions, and the motivation to express this through a
swastika flag. The flag then disappeared quickly, after he was approached by a
neighbor, whose relatives had survived the Holocaust. The question that bothers
me now is: why did the man have a swastika flag in his house?

<pic images/noe-trump.ps In our neighborhood, love is stronger than hate.>

On Wednesday after the election, Apple CEO Tim Cook and LinkedIn CEO Jeff
Weiner addressed their employees and appealed to them to respect each other
regardless of their skin color, origin, religion, sexual orientation, and also
regardless of who they voted for. It's interesting that company leaders are
taking such measures to comment on an election and ask their employees to stay calm.

In California, there were immediate efforts to prepare for Calexit, similar to
the "Brexit", which was a plan to declare California's independence from the
rest of the United States. Of course, this is not realistic and legally not
viable, as it would require amending the California Constitution, as well as a
two-thirds majority in both the House of Representatives and the Senate to
approve a secession. The California Constitution states that the state of
California cannot be divided.  This applies to all other states as well. There
was also the Yes California Independence Campaign before Trump's election, but
it has gained renewed momentum since then. Separatist movements at the state
level are nothing new.  Texas attempted one when Barack Obama was elected
president and was fortunately unsuccessful.

Regardless of whether one is for or against independence, the Americans we
know and interact with in San Francisco cannot even explain why Trump won. In
San Francisco, Trump only received around 10% of the votes. In American media,
it is often stated that the liberal strongholds on the East and West Coasts
live in a bubble and do not understand how things are going for people in the
middle. One could certainly also argue, however, that people in the
Republican strongholds are living in their own bubble. As our former mayor and
current Lieutenant Governor Gavin Newsom rightly pointed
out, California represents the America of the future: innovative with a diverse
and multicultural population.

<pic images/fuck-trump.ps At the 24th Street BART-U-Bahn station, someone has expressed their discontent with Trump.>

In California, the clocks usually tick a little differently, as shown by the
results of the also-proposed referendums. In many states, including California,
voters on November 9th not only voted for president but also elected senators
and judges and could vote for or against a plethora of so-called
"propositions." These are either citizen initiatives that make it onto the
ballot through signature drives in California or the California legislature
needs the approval of its citizens for certain decisions by holding an official
vote. There are initiatives that apply statewide or locally, on a city or county
level. Initiating a referendum is a popular pastime in California.

<pic images/cannabis-shop.ps California has legalized the use of marijuana for recreational purposes. Photo: flickr[Thomas Hawk|thomashawk/71149302].>

In San Francisco, voters had to go to the polls on November 9th not only for
the presidential election but also to decide on over 17 statewide and 25 local
ballot measures. Important issues were at stake as turnout is typically higher
during presidential elections. California voters legalized marijuana, not just
for medical reasons but also for recreational use. Michael will write more
about the details in his part of the newsletter. Additionally, plastic bag ban
was reaffirmed by California voters. Furthermore, voters spoke in favor of
stricter gun laws: the possession of large-capacity magazines will be banned,
and anyone wishing to purchase ammunition must undergo a background check
beforehand. However, the death penalty was not abolished, but rather, voters
chose to speed up its implementation, which is likely to be challenging in
practice as there are multiple levels of appeal.

@Z: Trump and Obamacare

<pic images/obamacare-demo.ps Protesters for Obamacare in Washington DC. Photo: flickr[majunznk|majunznk/7025568957]>

<em>Angelika</em> One of the greatest achievements of the Obama administration
might not survive the Trump presidency. The Affordable Care Act or
Obamacare, which has provided health insurance for millions of Americans, is in
a precarious position. This is not just due to Trump, but mainly because the
Senate and House of Representatives now have a Republican majority. Republicans
have been opposed to Obamacare since it was enacted and have continuously
proposed measures to repeal it. The plan is to repeal Obamacare on the first
day of Trump's term in office.

However, since there are currently about 20 million people covered under
Obamacare, you cannot simply declare Obamacare invalid without presenting an
alternative. The absurd idea that is constantly being brought up is to repeal
Obamacare but allow it to continue running until a new law is passed, which
could take several years. Experts, however, fear that the system will then
collapse as insurance companies become uncertain about their future and thus
stop offering plans under Obamacare."

<pic images/no-obamacare-demo.ps Protesters against Obamacare. Photo: flickr[fibonacciblue|fibonacciblue/4430839938]>

It is true that Obamacare needs improvement. Premiums are rising year after
year, mainly because not enough young healthy people are signing up for
insurance and would rather pay the penalty for being uninsured than get
covered. A universal healthcare plan remains affordable only if young healthy
individuals sign up for it, and the money is redistributed based on the
solidarity principle. However, Republicans and Trump do not seem to agree on
what a good alternative to Obamacare would be. They do know, though, that they
want to get rid of the mandate that requires every American to have health
insurance. The also demand that penalties for being uninsured should no longer
be imposed.

Opponents of Obamacare also demand that subsidies that allow low-income people
to pay for Obamacare policies should no longer exist. On the other hand, Trump
has announced that one of the best achievements of Obamacare will not be cut
off, namely that insurers cannot deny coverage to patients with so-called
"preexisting conditions." That way, even if you have a pre-existing condition,
you can still find an insurance.  This passage in the law is very popular among
the population. But actually, the principle of insuring everyone, regardless of
pre-existing conditions, only works if there is also a mandate for all to be
insured, so that the healthy carry the sick.  This wisdom, however, does not
seem to have reached all politicians in Washington yet. There is still hope,
though. The Democratic Party will fight for Obamacare in the Senate, and there,
the Republicans only have a very narrow majority. Since Obamacare is a law
passed by Congress, a simple majority would not be enough to fully repeal
Obamacare.

@Z: Executive Orders

<pic images/executive-order.ps The first Executive Order by Abraham Lincoln for the emancipation of slaves. Source: Wikipedia.>

<em>Angelika</em> During his tenure, Obama frequently used executive orders for
implementation.
<LINK>https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Executive_order|"Executive Orders"</LINK>
are presidential directives that would otherwise lack a majority to
obtain through Congress or the Senate due to lack of consensus. Examples during
the Obama administration include the Paris Climate Agreement, the issuance of
work permits for individuals who entered the country as children illegally with
their parents, or even the ban on drilling in the Arctic Ocean.

Both Democratic and Republican presidents have increasingly used this strategy
in the last 20 years, even though the Constitution only allows for its use in
cases of urgent problems. Historically, almost every American president has
made use of this tool, starting with George Washington who issued eight
Executive Orders right from the start, through Abraham Lincoln who issued the
famous "Emancipation Proclamation" in 1863 to free slaves, up to Ronald Reagan
(381), George H.W. Bush (291), Bill Clinton (308), George W. Bush (291) and
finally Obama (261).

The problem with this situation is that these orders are not binding laws and
the next president can easily abolish them by signing a simple executive order.
Trump has already boasted about issuing executive orders as his first official
act, and he has also hinted at making liberal use of implementation orders
afterwards. Exciting times ahead!

@Z: Trump and the Supreme Court

<pic images/supreme-court-2010.ps The judges of the U.S. Supreme Court, as of 2010. Source: Wikipedia.>

<em>Angelika</em> The question that everyone asks: What can, wants and will
Donald Trump actually implement from his election promises? One thing is
certain: through him, the Supreme Court of the United States will experience a
stronger conservative swing, as in the event of new appointments to the nine
highest judicial positions, the president plays an important role.

Since the death of Justice Antonin Scalia in February 2016, the Supreme Court
has had an open seat and two of the more liberal justices, namely Ruth Bader
Ginsburg and Stephen Breyer, are already quite elderly. Ginsburg is 83 years
old and not very healthy. Breyer is already 86 years old. And Justice Kennedy,
who once took a more liberal stance but then again often sided with the
conservatives, is also already 80 years old. Supreme Court justices can wear
their robes as long as they want; there is no mandatory retirement age. Most of
them actually die of old age in office.

<HTMLONLY>
<pic images/supreme-court-seal.ps The seal of the United States Supreme Court. Source: Wikipedia>
</HTMLONLY>

The position of Scalia, who passed away in February, should have been filled
long ago. This has not happened, as the Senate is also involved in the
nomination of new judges, and most Republican representatives refused to
consider Judge Merrick Garland, whom President Obama had nominated as his
successor.

This completely undemocratic behavior was not punished by voters on November
9th, however. Trump can now nominate a candidate for Scalia, and since the
Senate has a -- even if narrow -- Republican majority after the election, this
is likely to be more in line with the party's agenda. The Judiciary Committee
of the Senate will first question the proposed candidate, and if the committee
deems them qualified, the nomination will be put to a vote in the full Senate.
Usually, confirmation requires only a simple majority. A so-called filibuster,
the political strategy in the Senate to delay votes through endless talking,
can lead to the need for a supermajority of 60 votes to reach a decision.
Whoever Trump nominates as a judge, the candidate will eventually land in the
Supreme Court, postponing the change is not possible, at most delaying it.

@Z: Hot Topic Immigration

<pic images/esquineros.ps South American immigrants wait at the street corner for temporary jobs.>

<em>Angelika</em> To blame foreigners, asylum seekers and immigrants in the
election campaign is a well-known strategy, because these population groups are
always easy to scapegoat for everything that is going wrong. Trump has
particularly targeted people who live and work illegally in the US, 11 million
people. It's true that this problem needs to be solved sensibly at some point.
Bush tried to do so and would probably have succeeded if 9/11 had not occurred
during his term. Obama focused on Obamacare and left the issue of illegal
immigrants untouched.

Trump then in his campaign promised that he would not only build a wall between
Mexico and the U.S., but also plans to deport all eleven million illegal
immigrants. The implementation of the wall is a questionable undertaking
because the whole thing is costly and time-consuming. It is likely that the
already existing fence at many points of the border will be expanded. Eleven
million immigrants without papers to deport, that's logistically impossible.
There are not enough people at the Immigration and Customs Enforcement Agency
("Homeland Security") to track them down, nor enough detention centers for
deportation. Not to mention the costs and consequences for the economy.

<pic images/esquineros-2.ps Day laborers wait at Cesar Chavez Street for construction jobs.>

TODO

In California, where estimates suggest that almost one-quarter of the state's
eleven million illegal immigrants lack documentation, and in other states with
similarly high numbers, entire industries would be sure to collapse.
Practically no restaurant or construction site exists without the presence of
illegally-entered labor forces. Moreover, children born to undocumented
immigrants in the US are actually American citizens and cannot be deported with
their parents. The police chief of Los Angeles, Charlie Beck, as well as the
mayors of Los Angeles, New York City, Chicago, and San Francisco have already
announced that they would not cooperate with a large-scale deportation effort.

In cities like Los Angeles and San Francisco, police officers do not inquire
about immigration status. In Los Angeles, there has been a
'<LINK>http://assets.lapdonline.org/assets/pdf/SO_40.pdf|"Special arrangement
with number 40 | LAPD arrangement number 40 for illegal immigrants."</LINK>This
means that police officers cannot simply arrest people because they are
illegally in the country and only report certain crimes to immigration
authorities. The main reason for this is that the police need to ensure that
even illegal immigrants trust them and do not refuse to report crimes out of
fear of deportation. Los Angeles, which has a large population of undocumented
immigrants, could become chaotic if Trump's promised deportations became
reality. By the way, it is wrong to believe that no undocumented immigrants
were deported under Obama. Obama deported a total of 2.5 million illegal
immigrants and focused on those who had committed crimes.

<pic images/google.ps We are dependent on foreign specialists: Google. Photo: flickr[nbhattac|nbhattac/8087793186]>

Trump has not only targeted illegal immigrants, but also has his sights set on
certain work visas. He believes that these visas take jobs away from American
workers. Trump frequently mentions the H-1B visa for highly skilled foreign
workers, which Michael held for many years. Under this visa, employers must
prove that there is no qualified American worker for the job, and companies are
legally required to pay local wages. This is true for companies like Google,
Apple, Yahoo, Facebook, etc. However, it seems that there are occasional black
sheep that hire candidates from countries with significantly lower wages.

It is true that companies in Silicon Valley are desperately looking for people
and it is getting darker for the software industry without the H1B visa. It
would be completely impossible to fill even a portion of the open positions.
The number of H1B visas issued per year is currently limited to 85,000, but
according to employer studies, this is not enough, both front and back.
American tech companies have been pleading for years to increase this number,
but it seems unlikely that this will happen under Trump.

@Z: Top Product: Swingline Desk Clips Remover

<pic images/swingline-staple-remover.ps (#1) The Swingline office stapler deconstructs an annual report of a fund.>

<em>Michael</em> For some time now, I have been carefully snipping every single paper printout upon receipt, scanning it with a document scanner, saving it digitally and then throwing the paper into the recycling bin. For example, annual reports from mutual fund companies are often sent by post and I have to first free them from their bindings before cutting them into individual pages using a paper cutter.

<pic images/staple-remover.ps (#2) Traditional office clamp zwicker.>

Traditional desk staplers like the Swingo in illustration (#2) are not very expensive and bend the staples at the open ends, before you can then push them through the holes in the paper from the opposite side. I was unaware until now that stationery departments also carry other stapler removal tools such as those from Swingline in illustration (#1).

<pic images/swingline-amzn.ps The lavish design of the Swingline office stapler.>

The expansive design of the office tool resembles the "swinging" 50s, and when one holds the comfortable grip of the remover and guides the metallic tongue under the closed side of the clamp to be opened, it opens at the back and sways slowly out. One should not go too fast or else the paper will tear, but if you do it slowly, it actually works faster and more efficiently than with a traditional pinch model.

@Z: "Eyes open when buying bedding"

<pic images/king-size-bed.ps Our new king-size bed.>

<em>Michael</em>When we moved to the USA in 1996, we brought our bed frame and mattress set, which measured 2 x 1.60 meters from Germany. From our experience with numerous hotel stays, we knew that Queen-size beds (203cm x 152cm) are slightly narrower than what is common in America, and King-size beds (203cm x 193cm), which can be rented at an additional cost, offer significantly more comfort.

Sometimes in hotel rooms there are also two single beds, which are often in the so-called "twin" format, i.e. 191 cm x 99 cm, but they are usually only intended for individual persons. In the size "double" (also called "full size") mini double beds sometimes measure even 191 cm x 137 cm, but that is rather rare. And in super-luxury hotels suites sometimes offer "California King" beds for long legs, which are indeed 10 cm narrower than king beds, but 10 cm longer: 213 cm x 183 cm.

To buy a mattress with German measurements in the USA for a new bed is an impossibility, normal stores only offer twin, queen or king mattresses. Mr. and Mrs. Rockefeller have their mattresses custom-made, but it's not worth it for average Joe who throws his affordable German bed on the spare bedroom floor and buys a new American one instead.<LINK>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bed_size#Standard_North_American_sizes|"Bedding standards"</LINK>By the way, German fitted sheets for a 160 cm wide bed also fit a queen-sized mattress. Conversely, American queen-sized stretchy fitted sheets made of elastic material with a little effort can also fit a 160 cm wide mattress, but only at the edges.

Americans typically share a large bedspread that covers the entire bed on marriage beds. If one of the two sleepers has the habit of constantly grabbing a lot of bedding during sleep, it can lead to arguments. We therefore prefer for a long time individual covers in twin size, so that everyone can let off steam without waking up the other.

There are many mattresses in the USA, especially those with spring cores ("spring mattress"), that can sometimes protrude up to 50 cm out of the bed frame, much like the beds at Neuschwanstein Castle. Latex or memory foam mattresses, on the other hand, are only about half as thick. The latter are particularly helpful for people with back problems by remembering the contours of the body when sinking in. However, they emit a foul chemical odor for weeks after installation and can become extremely hot in summer months, making them recommended only in cooler climates or homes with air conditioning.

<pic images/slats.ps An American bed frame called "slats." Photo: flickr (brownpau/18863524008)>

Mattresses lie below on the bed frame which often consists of two equal individual parts for king-size beds that lay side by side in the bed frame. Also, regarding the bed frame, America has some unexpected options. Many memory foam mattress manufacturers write in their warranty instructions that a traditional bed frame with flexible slats should not be placed underneath but only an unyielding box spring which is a rigid yet air-permeable wooden framework that offers no cushioning, but ensures that the mattress does not sink or collapse.

We finally decided for the Ikea mattress "HESSTUN" in King Ludwig format and a bed from EQ3 and are very satisfied with it. However, the delivery of a king-size mattress in a rental house is accompanied by surprising difficulties. The two Ikea fritzes who lifted the 70 kg heavy mattress in the format 203 cm x 193 cm x 50 cm standing out of their truck, could not convince them to bring the monster into our elevator. They were only convinced by angels' tongues to carry it through the stairwell to the second floor because the mattress-pushing union at Ikea allegedly prohibited them from entering higher floors such as our third floor.

<pic images/movers-dolly.ps A wheeled trolley helps with moving mattresses.>

After some back and forth, it turned out that the large part of the stairwell did not fit around the corner. Gritting my teeth, I had the guys put the mattress by the front door and send them away. Armed with a wooden ruler and geometric formulas, I found out that the mattress, after removing the cardboard packaging using a cushion cutter (the two experts had refused to do so citing their extensive moving regulations), could be hyperbolic paraboloid in the elevator. I got into the elevator and pulled, Angelika pushed from outside, and as the mattress crossed the threshold, Angelika stepped back, and I quickly pressed the button for the third floor.

The door closed, and the elevator started moving upwards. Upon arriving at the third floor, it was easy to roll the mattress using a so-called "furniture dolly," which I always keep handy, into the apartment and place it in the bedroom. It was even easier when the bed delivery happened a few weeks later: Although the EQ3 commissioned delivery service couldn't fit everything in the elevator, the two deliverymen carried the non-fitting but appropriate headboard of the bed up the stairwell with ease and assembled it in under an hour. I happily gave them a killer tip.

@Z: Good series: Germany 83

<pic images/deutschland-83.ps German-language series that fares better in America than in Germany: Germany 83.>

<em>Michael</em>That we as Germans living in America present a German TV production may seem absurd to you, but the 8-part series "Germany 83" from 2015 is relatively unknown in Germany but has become very popular here in the US.

The fictional story revolves around an East German border guard during the mid-1980s of the Cold War, who infiltrates the West German army as a spy. While the spy is portrayed as sympathetic, the handlers of the East German leadership and their Russian allies are depicted as malevolent and secretive, which some left-leaning artists in Germany may not appreciate but is more acceptable in America. The DVD features English subtitles for the German production.

What really annoys me about the series is the background music that's present in almost every scene, created by a German Hollywood wannabe on a home computer. He probably programs other things like phone waiting tunes and elevator music. The producer should have been more careful and not just accept the whole meaningless electronic sound as a cheap package deal without considering its impact on the otherwise good film. But mistakes happen, and it's frustrating.

The actors are all completely unknown but play astonishingly credible, yes almost at an unfamiliar world level from Germany. Not comparable to the eternally old Tatort faces that don't even manage simple dialogues without me wriggling with disgust due to sheer foreignness. In two years, the production company has planned a second season under the title "Germany 86", one can be eagerly awaiting whether the hero in the lead role will again prevent the total atomic war!

@Z: "Surf report from the beach"

<pic images/surfline.ps "Pretty good wave conditions at the house beach in Pacifica.">

<em>Michael</em>I remain true to my passion for surfing and often travel to our<LINK>http://www.surfline.com/surf-report/pacifica-lindamar-northern-california_5013/|Beach Strand after Pacifica | Surfline report from Beach Strand</LINK>I quickly packed the surfboard into the elevator, down to the garage, out onto Highway 280 and in 18 minutes I was at the so-called "Linda Mar" beach. But are the waves worth it today? That's often the question, because when the wind is blowing strongly towards the beach, the Pacific Ocean turns into churning unsurfable white foam there, and then that doesn't work.

A company called "Surfline" has set out to install cameras at every surfable beach in America and provide surfers like me with videos of the current wave conditions on the internet. Using the good footage that also shows how many surfers are currently in the water, it's easy to tell whether the trip will be worth it. I even set up an alarm that sends me a message on my cell phone if the waves reach a preset height and minimum swell.

The service costs nothing if you just take a quick look and don't let advertising videos deter you, for a Premier account you will be charged $14.95 per month. You can deduce that the company Surfline is run by idiots who have no idea about business, just like the German internet sheep farmer operator Sauspiel, who also leaves half of its potentially earnable income on the table. If Surfline would only charge $5 per month, they would have a lot more subscribers, but the people there probably work only in short breaks between a dozen surf sessions per day. Hey, money is not important to me, man!

@Z: California allows hashing.

<pic images/joint.ps Now legal: Scrape Photo: flickr[maxcrowe|maxcrowe/2149136890]>

<em>Michael</em>In that whole Trump-Rummel is the result of the much anticipated vote on the legalization of marijuana smoking in California completely forgotten. After two unsuccessful attempts in 1996 and 2010, California voters actually approved the so-called "recreational use of marijuana" in 2016, i.e. smoking for private enjoyment. "Medical Marijuana" has been available to us for a long time, where you can buy your THC-containing cannabis product at the officially operated "Dispensories" stores, all you had to do was go to some doctor and get a prescription for "back pain", then register as a purchaser in a state database, and then smoke until your brain hit the ceiling.

Many people got on the deal, and an entire industry of state-licensed distribution outlets, as well as doctors who specialize in prescribing, shot up like mushrooms from the ground. Anyone who has ever strolled along Venice Beach in Los Angeles knows that relaxed young people in bright green overalls approach tourists quickly to the "doctor" who happens to have his practice right on the boardwalk, and with a pointed pen and open prescription booklet for $30, provides the desired permit.

"San Francisco has always been a marijuana metropolis even without a prescription. It's no secret that whole regions like Humboldt County, about 100 miles north, mainly live off the illegal cannabis cultivation. Drug possession has been treated as a gentleman's crime since the '90s, and only the commercial distribution of it was pursued. However, according to the law, it was still prohibited, but a policeman in San Francisco would never arrest someone just for smoking a joint unless they had a personal grudge against that person."

I don't want to name any specific companies here, but before my last job change, I made myself known at several well-known Silicon Valley branches and filled out their job applications before they even interviewed me. In the section on criminal records, I was asked as an applicant to provide any "criminal records," and it made me laugh when I saw that not only at one company but at several that they explicitly advise leaving out convictions related to marijuana use.

On November 9th, the California Proposition 64 was approved by the voters with<LINK>http://bit.ly/2cLJy4i|"57 to 43 percent | Result of Proposition 64"</LINK>The translated text reads: "The 2015 initiative filed with the Attorney General of California, and now everyone can smoke as many joints as they want without any regrets. However, what does the new law exactly mean in practice, for example for German tourists who will undoubtedly flock like before to Amsterdam, the mecca of drug consumption, to pilgrimage to San Francisco."

The text of the proposition provides that consumers will only be able to legally purchase cannabis products at licensed stores starting in early 2018. A special sales tax of 15% will then be imposed, which will generate revenue for state coffers. In addition, cannabis farmers will have to pay $9.25 per ounce (28g) of harvested flowers, and $2.75 per ounce for leaves and stems. Revenues are estimated at $4 billion by 2020.

California is currently discussing whether marijuana producers will be allowed to display their products on large billboards along the freeways or if the product should follow the same restrictions as tobacco products.<LINK>http://www.thecannifornian.com/cannabis-news/law/california-considers-ban-roadside-billboard-marijuana-ads/|Advertising prohibition</LINK>In the United States, the states of Alaska, Washington DC, Washington, Oregon, and Colorado have already legalized cannabis and are working on the legal details. Alaska and Oregon are still working on their distribution strategy. In Colorado, there are already such stores. Private cultivation of up to six plants is allowed, except in Washington, where only licensed commercial growers are allowed to plant.

In the United States, private possession of cannabis products is allowed for adults aged 21 and above, with a limit of one ounce per person. Gifting acquired or homegrown products (also up to one ounce) is permitted. Selling cannabis products is only allowed through official channels, while private sales are prohibited. Consuming marijuana products is not allowed in public spaces such as streets or parks in some states; it must be done only in private residences or on balconies, depending on the state's laws.

Since the legal situation is quite complicated, as I am currently reading in the news,
<LINK>http://www.thecannifornian.com/cannabis-culture/marijuana-legalization-rollout-delayed|the rollout could be delayed|Delayed rollout for Canabis</LINK>. 
Bureaucracy in California grinds notoriously slow.

Greetings from the center of the hippie Movement:

Angelika and Michael
