San Francisco, 05-07-2017

@Z: Summer of Love

<pic images/summer-of-love.ps The exhibition "Summer of Love" at the De Young Museum in Golden Gate Park.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
We live in tumultuous times. Every morning when we wake up, we ask
ourselves what Trump has blurted out today. Describing the man as erratic
and impulsive is quite an understatement. A tweet here, an executive
order there, which is then immediately struck down by a court,
threats directed at his own Republicans and North Korea, deportations
of illegal immigrants. We hardly get any rest. Have there ever been
more turbulent times? And then I think of the Cold War, Pershing
missiles, the Iraq wars, Chernobyl, Afghanistan, and all sorts of
other crises.

<pic images/summer-of-love-buttons.ps These pins were worn by the politically active hippies back then.>

In San Francisco, the 50th anniversary of the "Summer of Love"
currently commemorates another phase of unrest and upheaval. Back in the day, the
Vietnam War alarmed and frightened many, bringing a multitude of
young people to San Francisco in the summer of 1967. Around 100,000
spent their summer in the now historic Haight-Ashbury district and
the adjacent Golden Gate Park to protest against the establishment
and the Vietnam War, or to promote a colorful, more peaceful world
with fewer constraints. It was more about a way of life than a
political stance. Music, art, colorful, eccentric clothing, drugs
(LSD), and free love; all of this was part of the "Summer of Love."
Everyone knows the song sung by Scott McKenzie, "If you're going to
San Francisco, be sure to wear some flowers in your hair," which
describes the spirit of that special summer like no other.

<pic images/summer-of-love-shoes.ps These homemade shoes could still pass as fashionable today.>

On the occasion of the 50th anniversary, San Francisco is hosting
various events, including an exhibition at the De Young Museum. We
visited it two weeks ago. As those familiar with San
Francisco know, the museum is located in Golden Gate Park, the same
place where the "Summer of Love" largely took place 50 years ago. The
exhibition is very colorful and showcases hippie clothing, concert
posters, tie-dye art, photos, and protestor buttons. Visitors can also
experience a light room with hippie music and a colorful light show.
I particularly liked the clothes. I would still love to wear one or
two of those pieces today. It was also amusing to see many so-called
old hippies at the exhibition, dressed in tie-dye T-shirts,
reminiscing about the past.

<pic images/summer-of-love-jeans.ps Sequin jeans were all the rage in 1970.>

Even today, young runaways are still drawn to the Haight-Ashbury
district, but they prefer to hang out on the sidewalks of Haight
Street. They usually have at least two dogs with them, and their
clothing resembles that of homeless punks. There's no trace of
colorful and cheerful vibes. However, the neighborhood still boasts
some long-established, interesting shops.
<LINK>https://www.amoeba.com|Amoeba|Record Store Amoeba</LINK>
is a huge independent record store that sells not only CDs but also
good old vinyl records. A whopping 2,200 square meters of retail
space await music lovers. Anyone who, like me, is into hats should
check out
<LINK>http://www.goorin.com/shops/san-francisco-haight|Goorin Bros|Store of Goorin Bros</LINK>
on Haight Street. This is an old American hat company that
began making hats in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, in 1895. In 1949, the
company moved its headquarters to San Francisco. The company is still
family-owned. The first shop to sell hats exclusively was opened by the company in
2006 in North Beach, San Francisco, followed by the one on Haight
Street. Before that, Goorin Bros sold its hats only through
wholesale. Those who are into vintage clothing will find what they
are looking for at
<LINK>http://decadesoffashionsf.com|Decadas de moda</LINK>,
carries clothing from all possible eras.

<pic images/mendels-sushi-fabric.ps (#6) Upholsterer Michael covered the dining room chairs with fabric from "Mendel's".>

And then there is
<LINK>https://www.mendels.com|Mendel's" Fabric Store</LINK>
where Michael buys his crazy fabrics to create dust covers for his
electronic devices and to patch the holes in his pants. The store
also carries all kinds of stationery and craft supplies. For example,
our newly upholstered chairs (illustration (#6)) are adorned with a
sushi fabric from "Mendel's." The store has been around since the
60s, so it actually experienced the "Summer of Love."

@Z: Zeitgeist Beer Garden And The Sunlight

<pic images/zeitgeist-door.ps Behind the entrance door of the Zeitgeist, the bouncer checks the IDs of baby-faced individuals.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
You have surely already read here that ugly, bland,
overpriced residential high-rises are increasingly dominating the
cityscape of San Francisco, displacing beloved and traditionally
designed places. However, occasionally, there's a win for the long-established residents
of this, in this case it's pub named
<LINK>http://www.zeitgeistsf.com|Zeitgeist</LINK>.

<pic images/zeitgeist-bar.ps The Zeitgeist bar is busy even on Saturday afternoons.>

Behind the German-sounding name lies a legendary dive bar with a
beer garden, which has been providing refreshments for thirsty throats
on Valencia Street in San Francisco since 1977, initially under the
name "Rainbow Cattle Company." The owner, Horst Hans Grahlmann, a
German who ended up in San Francisco, renamed the bar "Zeitgeist" in
1986.

<pic images/zeitgeist-garten-1.ps This beautiful beer garden was
almost deprived of sunlight by a hipster apartment block.>

Grahlmann was a flamboyant figure in the bar scene; he owned several
bars in San Francisco and the surrounding area and was murdered under
mysterious circumstances in 1998 at his home on the Russian River
near Guerneville. The "Zeitgeist" bar has changed owners several times
since then, is somewhat dimly lit and slightly disreputable inside,
and was more popular with the biker underworld in the past.
But nowadays, the pub and beer garden attract a diverse crowd. Not
only is there good draft beer, but supposedly also the best "Bloody
Marys" in San Francisco.

<pic images/zeitgeist-garten-2.ps Even with only two hours of sunshine a day, the beer garden is packed.>

The beer garden idyll was recently threatened, as the oil change
location "Oil Changer" directly across from "Zeitgeist" was to be
demolished and replaced with a new, ugly residential block. However,
the new, extremely tall residential building would have taken away the
afternoon sunlight from the Zeitgeist beer garden. The planning
commission in San Francisco discussed the issue, promptly intervened,
and decided that the planned residential building must be reduced in
height by 1.5 meters (5 feet) so that the beer garden tables would
not be shaded.

<pic images/zeitgeist-oil-changer.ps Where the oil change workshop is now, the monstrous hipster apartment block is supposed to go.>

San Francisco has actually has had a
<LINK>http://bit.ly/2p9cVFe|"Sunlight Ordinance"</LINK>
since 1984.
The regulation stipulates that architects of new buildings must
conduct a shadow analysis if the new building exceeds 12 meters in
height. The construction must not literally cast public parks into
shadow. Although the Zeitgeist pub is not a park, the regulation
still came as a relief to the owners of Zeitgeist. After all, the
residents of San Francisco make use of every bit of afternoon
sunlight before the inevitable fog rolls in, and in the evening, one
can only sit outside under heaters.

@Z: Clean Power San Francisco

<pic images/pge-flyer-title.ps The colorful stream of happy electricity cows.>

<em>Michael</em> 
We get our electricity and gas here on the northern Pacific coast
from the local energy provider "Pacific Gas and Electricity" (PG&E).
Since we have an (admittedly: idiotic) electric heating system, our
electricity bill fluctuates significantly between summer and
winter months, ranging from about 70 to 120 dollars per month. As you
can see in Figure (#2), we consumed exactly 692 kilowatts of
electricity in the brutally cold December 2016, according to the
meter reader, who swings by roughly every 30 days, subject to
their discretion.

<pic images/pge-2017-01.ps Our electricity bill for December is quite steep.>

The first 432 kilowatts cost approximately 18 cents each, while the
cost for the remaining 260 kilowatts increases by about 33% to 24
cents. Power producers charge proportionally more for above-average
consumption because power surges are expensive to manage, for example, on
extremely hot summer days when everyone in Silicon Valley turns on
their air conditioning.

<pic images/pge-tiers.ps (#2) The electricity price per kilowatt depends on the total consumption.>

Some time ago, a colorful brochure arrived at our house, announcing
that starting in December 2016, electricity generation and delivery
would be billed separately. PG&E would no longer be responsible for
generation; instead, a new company called "CleanPowerSF" would take
over. This company would not source its electricity molecules from
nuclear and other power plants, and only 29.5% from renewable
energies, but with the "Green" plan, it would generate 40%
environmentally friendly electricity. Those who wanted to be
proactive and were willing to pay more could order "Supergreen,"
which uses 100% renewable energies. Those who were more conservative
and disdained being green could opt out and continue to receive the
good old PG&E electricity. Naturally, we did nothing and, like most
lethargic people, were forcibly greened.

<pic images/pge-announce.ps Customers have the choice between Green, Supergreen, and Opt-out.>

<pic images/pge-chart.ps Allegedly, green is as expensive as before.>

However, as soon as the December bill fluttered into households, the wailing
and gnashing of teeth began on the neighborhood complaint site
Nextdoor (<RBLINK>20140914#5</RBLINK>).
A homeowner in the neighborhood reportedly
had to pay 450 dollars! It turned out that the increased
bill amount was due to four different reasons. Firstly, we had an
unusually cold winter, and when temperatures are near freezing,
Californians shiver like aspen leaves and turn up the heating.
Secondly, PG&E had significantly raised natural gas prices, charging
households with gas heating more. Thirdly, the meter reader was
extremely lazy in December, and the billing period extended over more
than a month. And fourthly, due to the forced switch to "Green," the
electricity price went up by about 10%. Our electricity bill in
December amounted to $142.38 ($91.89 for the provider CleanPowerSF
and $50.49 to PG&E for delivery), but in the following months, it
normalized again.

<pic images/pge-flyer.ps The power producer is trying to explain the new bill.>

However, the discussion was already in full swing, and most people
were blaming the new green energy producer, even though it was only
partially at fault. Additionally, everyone around here deeply hates the
company PG&E because about seven years ago in San Bruno, a suburb of
San Francisco,
a gas pipeline exploded due to maintenance negligence,
triggered a huge fire in which eight people died, and PG&E
had to pay approximately 1.6 billion dollars in damages.

<pic images/pge-increase.ps (#3) To fool the solar installers, Pacific Gas and Electricity is raising prices for low-consumption users.>

And now the criminal company has pulled off another coup: Many
homeowners are installing solar panels on their roofs and
generating most of their electricity themselves. Only at night do
they sometimes need to add a few drops of PG&E electricity, and what
does PG&E do? Naturally, the gang of crooks wasn't thrilled about the
new competition and raised the prices for low-consumption users up to
250kWh by 50% (Figure (#3)), thus punishing the green solar
enthusiasts, who are now, of course, up in arms. Let's see how this
continues; the last word has not yet been spoken.

@Z: Customer Complaints On Twitter

<pic images/twitter.ps One of the most underrated Twitter accounts in the world.>

<em>Michael</em> 
When Twitter first came out, back in 2006, with the concept of sending short
messages with a maximum of 140 characters, I thought, "I'll give that
silly club a year before investors pull the plug," but even I am
occasionally wrong! Trump now communicates almost exclusively through
this channel with the unwashed masses. And many companies even handle
their customer service through it.

If a website or a purchased product doesn't work, I no longer call
the hotline, but instead, I send out a so-called "tweet" in which I
mention the company with
<em>@company_name</em>. Both my 'followers' and the company
will read it, and soon there will be hectic activity there, so that
company representatives will hopefully respond
few minutes, visible to to
potentially hundreds of thousands of the company's followers:
"Yes, yes, the error is known, and the engineers are working on it!"

<pic images/manning-twitter.ps (#5) Customer complains on Twitter, heads start rolling>

A win-win for everyone involved: The dissatisfied customer feels
taken seriously, and the company demonstrates, in a PR-effective
manner, that they immediately take action on customer complaints to
rectify any issues. In Figure (#5), you can see, for example, that I
had tried to purchase a book on the website of the specialist book
publisher "Manning," but their shopping cart software, which seemed
to have been programmed by retrained shopping cart pushers, wouldn't
let me buy the desired book. Shortly afterward, Manning tweeted that
the engineering team had been notified, and the next day, the
purchase worked thanks to an overnight fix. As a customer, I felt
like a king, and my previous day's frustration was forgotten. What
did we do before the invention of the internet?

@Z: Smart Car With Automatic Plug

<pic images/automatic-3.ps The automatic adapter for the car records the car's current location.>

<em>Michael</em> 
We are known for not driving luxury cars but rather aging vehicles of
the lower working class (now even *with* airbags!). However, when my
colleagues show off their new Teslas, which they can remotely control
out of a parking space via a smartphone app, I can't just stand by
idly. The company "Automatic" manufactures an adapter that you plug
into the diagnostic port under your car's dashboard. The device then connects to the
owner's smartphone to send all sorts of interesting data about the
vehicle's current location, speed, and whether the driver is
accelerating like a maniac or slamming on the brakes.

<pic images/automatic-2.ps Discreetly plugged in under the dashboard>

The Pro version of the adapter costs about 120 dollars and provides
mobile network data traffic for five years. The previous version,
which I, as an early adopter par excellence, of course, already
owned, did not yet have a wireless or GPS module and connected to a
carried mobile phone when the engine was started, and the smartphone did the heavy
lifting. However, this only worked in 20% of cases due to sloppy
programming and would have been completely useless if the car had
been stolen, as the car thief would hardly have their phone connected to
the plug.

<pic images/automatic-4.ps In 16 minutes, Michael drove to the beach in Pacifica to surf.>

Because the app continuously collects data, I know exactly where
Angelika is currently driving with the car, where I parked, or how
much fuel the car is consuming. Since the app also creates statistics
about other drivers who also use the plug, I can see if I brake
harder or accelerate faster than others, or how long it takes me to
drive on the 280 freeway from San Jose to San Francisco at midnight.
Hint: Not long.

<pic images/automatic-5.ps Statistics on distances traveled by car.>

Since we drive two cars with plugs, I can see exactly which one
consumes more fuel. Since each of us usually drives "their" car, a
direct driver comparison is even possible. In the event of an
accident, a message is supposed to pop up on the phone, but
fortunately, that hasn't happened yet. However, if the engine acts up
and a warning light comes on, the plug reads the error code, and the
app provides tips on what needs to be fixed. Very useful!

@Z: Vandals In The Engine Compartment

<pic images/honda-mouse-repair.ps Expensive fun: 350 dollars in damage to the car.>

<em>Michael</em> 
Recently, Angelika texted me during work hours, excitedly reporting
that our (relatively) new car, a 2011 Honda Fit called "Brummi," was
acting up and the automatic transmission was suddenly shifting gears
very ungracefully. On the "Automatic" app on my phone, I could see
that the automatic transmission was reporting an error, so I called
my mechanic to schedule an appointment at his workshop. But he waved
it off, saying he usually stays away from transmissions, and referred
me to a transmission specialist in the Outer Mission district. Oh
dear, I thought, this is going to be expensive.

<pic images/outer-mission.ps In the Outer Mission, the world is still like it was 20 years ago, before all the techie lemmings came.>

I got an appointment right away and dropped off Brummi. A few hours
later, the transmission guy called me back and cheerfully told me he
had good and bad news. The good news was that the transmission was
fine. The bad news: A rodent, most likely a mouse, had gnawed on some
cables in the engine compartment and caused a short circuit, which
had disabled a sensor connected to the transmission. The latter is
programmed to switch to the so-called fail-safe mode in the event of
any errors, slamming the gears in such a way that the driver panics
and takes the car to the nearest workshop.

<pic images/honda-tape.ps The supposedly rat-proof Honda tape.>

To the tune of $350 for the electrical diagnosis and the replacement
of a few cables, I got Brummi back and thought about how it could
have come to this. Well, in our ground level garage, Brummi is parked
right next to the compost bin, so rats celebrate their parties there
at night, that seems obvious. And in January, it was unusually cold for a
few days (almost zero degrees Celsius!), and since Angelika drives the car
daily, it stayed nice and warm for an hour after being parked, likely
attracting shivering rodents who also wanted a little snack.

Rumors are circulating on the internet that car manufacturers have
recently started making the insulation of cables in the engine
compartment out of rodent-friendly material derived from soy for
environmental reasons. The good old PVC coatings from the 90s are
said to be more of a deterrent, according to the internet. In fact, our
1991 Acura Integra, the legendary Perly Perlman, was parked in the
same spot for at least five years without any cable-chewing rodents
causing damage.

Honda seems to be aware of the problem and offers a special tape
under the part number "4019-2317 Rodent Tape" at the exorbitant price
of 30 dollars per 20-meter roll. Supposedly, cables wrapped with it
are meant to deter mice. I bought a roll and will try it out to see
if it helps.

@Z: Curious Tax Facts

<pic images/turbo-tax.ps The miracle software "Turbo Tax">

<em>Angelika</em> 
The German press is now reporting so much about Trump that I hardly
know what to write that you don't already know. Even the
demonstrations on April 15, the well-known Tax Day in the USA, were
covered by Tagesschau. Demonstrators took to the streets to urge
Trump to release his own tax returns, which is something every
president traditionally does, but Trump doesn't care. He insists that
his tax returns are off-limits.

Although the demonstrations took place on April 15, the actual
deadline this year was on Tuesday, April 18. This is because if April
15 falls on a Saturday or Sunday, taxes are not due until the
following Monday (<RBLINK>20140615#4</RBLINK>).
And this year, the people who procrastinate on filing their tax
returns were doubly lucky because in the District of Columbia (i.e.,
Washington D.C.), Monday, April 17th was a holiday ("Emancipation
Day"), which pushed the deadline to Tuesday, April 18th. Good for me,
because I also like to postpone preparing our tax return for as long
as possible.

I also belong to the group of people who prepare their tax return
with the help of a software program called "Turbo Tax," but then do
not submit it electronically to the American tax office. Instead, I
print it out and send it by mail. This almost makes me an oddity,
because according to the IRS (the American tax authority), over 90%
of tax returns are now submitted to the tax office via the internet.
My software program almost goes crazy and asks multiple times if I
really want to print everything out. But I insist on it, because who
really knows if the data is securely transmitted or if a hacker is
already rubbing their hands in anticipation of accessing the data.

Admittedly, postal items also get lost or end up in the wrong hands,
because nothing is truly secure. The tax office also does not publish
any data on how it actually scans the submitted forms, as it
naturally wants all taxpayers to choose the electronic route to save
expenses. In the past, post offices had longer opening hours on tax
submission day. However, since the number of people sending their tax
returns by mail has significantly decreased, the post office no
longer does this.

<pic images/post-office.ps This post office in San Francisco opens at 7 a.m.>

But there is actually a post office in San Francisco that opens at
seven o'clock in the morning from Monday to Friday. An absolute
rarity. It is located on Evans Avenue in the formerly quite notorious
Bayview-Hunters Point neighborhood. So I set off there before work.
The line was still quite short early in the morning, and I even got
some entertainment because the elderly gentleman in front of me in
the line loudly protested that the charlatan Trump had not released
his tax returns.

What I actually wanted to say is that even people who don't have
papers, meaning those who are in the USA illegally, file tax returns.
How does that work? Since no one can get a Social Security number in
the USA without official documents (although some undocumented
individuals allegedly obtain them on the black market), and since this number
also serves as a tax number, the American tax office issues tax
numbers ("Individual Taxpayer Identification Number," or ITIN for
short) for people without Social Security numbers. Even people who
are legally in the country and hold certain visas do not necessarily
receive a Social Security number, but they still have to pay taxes
and file tax returns, and they also receive an individual tax number.

In the USA, it's not so much the immigration status that matters when
it comes to paying taxes, but rather whether the immigrant has been
in the country for more than 183 days. But why do people who are in
the country illegally even voluntarily file a tax return? For one,
these individuals often receive tax refunds because they tend to earn
in the lower income bracket. Here's how it works: An undocumented
immigrant works for a company under a false Social Security number,
under which the company withholds taxes and submits them to the IRS.
The number belongs to a legitimate citizen who is unaware of this.
When the undocumented immigrant files a tax return with their ITIN
number, they include the earnings statement with the false Social
Security number. The IRS notices this, of course,
<LINK>http://bit.ly/2pivwKe|but operates special software</LINK>
which firstly ignores the discrepancy and secondly ensures that
the rightful owner of the social security number is spared and does
not have to pay taxes on the income of the illegal person.

Many undocumented immigrants hope that by paying taxes, they might
eventually obtain legal status, for example, through an amnesty,
because they have adhered to the country's laws and contributed to
the system. According to the American tax authority, in 2016, 4.5
million people filed tax returns using an ITIN instead of a Social
Security number, although it is unclear how many of them had valid
papers, as the tax office does not inquire about this. However, Trump
has since frightened many undocumented immigrants, and this year, for
the first time, there has been a decline in tax returns filed with an
ITIN. The tax office is not allowed to share the gathered details
with other authorities.

@Z: Penny-Pinching When Buying Gas

<pic images/divis-gas-shell.ps With a car wash, the gasoline is cheaper, but still more expensive than around the corner.>

<em>Michael</em> 
Anyone who is used to the fact that gasoline in Germany might cost 10
cents more directly on the highway than elsewhere will be shocked in
America when one gas station charges $3.74 per gallon and the next
one, just a kilometer away, charges only $2.55. What, you say, that's
not possible? But it is, as you can see from Figure (#1) with the gas
price app "GasBuddy." At the corner of Valencia and 24th Street,
right on the border of our upscale neighborhood Noe Valley, a gallon
of regular gasoline costs $3.74, and just a kilometer away, at the
corner of Castro and Market, it's only $2.55.

<pic images/gasbuddy.ps (#1) In our neighborhood, regular gasoline costs 3.74 dollars per gallon, but just a kilometer away it costs only 2.55 dollars.>

Call me a stick-in-the-mud or a (Bavarian) Swabian, but I would
rather drive 10 kilometers than pay even 10 cents more for gas.
Angelika can tell horror stories about how, during our last vacation
in Germany, I drove off the highway to reach a rural gas station that
promised cheap fuel according to an app, but then, surprisingly, it
was closed on Sunday, and we almost ran out of gas in the middle of
the desolate North German Plain!

A gallon is 3.785 liters and the euro is currently at 1.07 dollars,
so you get the euro price per liter of gasoline if you divide the
displayed American price by about 4. At the more expensive gas
station mentioned above, a liter of regular gasoline costs 0.93
euros, while the cheaper one only charges 0.64 euros.

However, it should be noted that certain gas station chains only
accept cash and not credit cards, or they charge an additional fee
for card payments. Instead of cash, you can also pay at these
discount gas stations with debit cards and a PIN, but I never do that
for security reasons. If someone skims the PIN and empties the
bank account, the bank shifts responsibility onto the customer,
whereas credit card companies assume full liability. Additionally,
customers with a good credit score receive credit cards that offer
cash back when they use them for payments. I'm not talking about some bonus
miles that some people use to book time-consuming, uncomfortable
flights, but actual cash back, where the card company
refunds the customer an impressive 4% of the gas price, in cash, also
known as "money," "mula," or in Bavarian, "Diri-Dari."

<pic images/divis-gas-arco.ps Arco only accepts cash or ATM cards, so the penny-pincher misses out on the credit card discount.>

Chains like "Arco" or "Rotten Robbie" don't accept credit cards, so
the penny-pincher has to weigh the options: If the gas station across
the street offers gas with card payment for $2.66 and the cash-only
station for $2.55, I would fill up across the street because I would
get the 4% difference refunded by the card company and wouldn't have
to go through the hassle of going into the gas station booth to
prepay, as is customary in America, and then return for change. Or if
at the mega-discount store Costco, there are ten cars with running
engines lined up at each of the ten pump pairs, I don't queue up
behind the last Valley lemming with too much free time and wait 20
minutes; instead, I pay 10 cents more elsewhere, because time is
money.

<pic images/gas-costco.ps At the mega-discount store Costco, the gasoline costs 10 cents less, but it is only recommended at night.>

By the way, diesel is generally more expensive than regular gasoline
in America. Often, it is not even listed on the large price boards,
and some gas stations in remote areas do not carry it at all. This is
further proof that demand dictates price, not production
cost. Gas stations typically offer gasoline in three different
octane ratings: Regular (87), Mid-Grade (89), and Premium (92-93).
Our small but feisty Honda Fit is satisfied with "Regular," while our
Acura "Rocket" Integra guzzles an inordinate amount of "Premium"
gasoline. Mid-Grade is usually 10 cents more expensive than Regular,
and Premium is another 10 cents more than Mid-Grade. However, this
pricing structure also varies; for example, the hipster gas station
around the corner from us charges 3.74, 3.88, and 3.97 for the
different grades, which means 14 cents more for "Mid-Grade," but then
only 9 cents more for "Premium," probably to avoid crossing the
4-dollar mark, because even the dumbest hipster would notice they are
being ripped off.

Greetings from the center of the capital:

Angelika und Michael
