San Francisco, 08-20-2017

@Z: City Bike In San Francisco

<pic images/ford-go-bikes-sit.ps Michael is test-riding the rental bike.>

<em>Michael</em> 
Since San Francisco's criminal sidewalk campers broke into our garage
and stole my bike (<RBLINK>20141221#1</RBLINK>, <RBLINK>20160229#1</RBLINK>)
I have renounced bicycle ownership. However, every now and then I do
get the itch to take a little ride, to quickly dash down to the
Mission district to grab some Mexican food, or just for fun in the
evening shortly before sunset, to zoom around and take photos of
funny people in embarrassing situations.

<pic images/ford-go-bikes-station.ps Some parking spaces are always empty so that arriving customers can park their bicycles.>

TODO

The GoBike program was familiar to me from San Francisco's financial
district, where a dozen basket-equipped granny bikes stood here and
there in front of locking stations similar to the luggage cart
machines at the airport. Supposedly, you could unlock and ride them
around after paying an annual membership fee. I had never tried the
service.

Last week, construction workers suddenly showed up right in front of
our apartment building out of nowhere, set up no-parking signs, and
started making an infernal noise. Before the neighbors could guess
what was being built, the installation was complete, and lo and
behold: A large advertising board was promoting something called
"Bike Sharing," and half a dozen bicycles were already available for
immediate use.

<pic images/ford-go-bikes-app.ps With the smartphone app, the
customer pays and unlocks their rental bike.>

The bike trailer is, no kidding, 10 meters away from our front door
and is taking up three parking spaces, which the neighbors are
discussing on the neighborhood forum "Nextdoor".
<RBLINK>20140914#5</RBLINK>
..completely freaked out, probably because the city had quietly and
secretly handled the deal with the rental company "Motivate LLC,"
sponsored by the car manufacturer "Ford," and presented the citizens
with a fait accompli. No matter, our two cars are in the garage, and
I thought to myself, I have to try out this newfangled thing right
away. So I installed the phone app, paid 3 dollars for a single ride,
chose a granny bike, and pressed the app button to unlock it. The app
then displayed a 5-digit code consisting of the numbers 1-3 ("31131"
I believe), which I entered using the three number keys on the dock
(illustration (#2)), whereupon the heavy lock clicked and the bike
popped out. I zipped around for about 20 minutes, down to the Mission
district and then wheezed back up the hill. All in all, a successful
start.

<pic images/ford-go-bikes-lock.ps At the bike dock, the customer must
enter the code to unlock the bike. (#2)>

Overall, "Ford GoBike" will install 2,000 bicycles in the city of San
Francisco in the coming months and another 1,500 in the East Bay. A
single ride from one station to the next may last no more than 30
minutes, costing $3. If the rider keeps the bike longer, each
additional quarter (!) hour costs another $3. The trick that allows
the company to (likely) remain profitable despite low prices is that
the bicycles are never on the street for more than 30 minutes;
afterward, they are back at a station and available to new customers.

A day pass costs 10 dollars, and a 3-day pass costs 20 dollars, but
both only allow for an unlimited number of 30-minute short rides.
Important: Every half hour, the bike must be returned to one of the
approximately 100 parking stations scattered throughout the city. You
can't just go into a museum or a store to shop because you can't
secure the bike, and locking it with a personal lock is explicitly
not allowed in the terms of use. The program is therefore only
helpful for people who want to quickly bike 1 or 2 kilometers from A
to B, with a bike station near both A and B. Since you can also pay
149 dollars annually, this might be suitable for commuters who take
public transportation to a stop with a bike station, unlock a bike
there, and ride to a bike station a block away from their
destination. Provided there is a street with a bike lane leading
there, because as a cyclist in San Francisco, you have to be
extremely careful not to get run over or hit by the swinging door of
a parked car. So: bring a helmet and wear it!

@Z: Obamacare survives

<pic images/trumpcare-3.ps US citizens protest against the planned
repeal of Obamacare (Photo:
flickr[stephenmelkisethian|stephenmelkisethian/36213128315]).>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Every day we receive new bad news from the White House. It feels like
we are in a bad TV show. Yet, despite the daily drama, there is
political deadlock. Although the Republicans have solid majorities in
the House of Representatives and the Senate, and a Republican
president, nothing is moving forward because the Republicans are so
divided among themselves and the factions within the party are so
extreme that compromises seem hopeless.

At first glance, this is good for the population groups that neither
voted for Trump nor are close to Republican policies. But on the
other hand, everything is going downhill. Even the promise to improve
infrastructure has not yet been fulfilled, although a broad majority
considers it necessary. Anyone who, like me, has to navigate around
the potholes in California's highways every day to avoid getting a
flat tire knows what I'm talking about.

Trump was determined to overturn Obamacare, but despite massive
bargaining and threats, the matter is now on hold. Instead, the
Republicans now want to reform the American tax system, which experts
consider a complete utopia. The American tax system is one of the
most complex in the world (I'm not exaggerating!) with many special
deductions and loopholes. So it would indeed make sense to simplify
it. However, the Republicans have no better idea than tax cuts,
mainly for the super-rich and corporations. A proper reform, however,
would need to include tax cuts, close loopholes, and raise more taxes
to improve the state budget, as well as achieve a fairer
redistribution of the tax burden.

<pic images/trumpcare-4.ps Democratic politicians advocate for the
retention of Obamacare (Photo:
flickr[stephenmelkisethian|stephenmelkisethian/35389383054]).>

But I digress. I actually wanted to report on the failed healthcare
reform. Why did it not pass, even though the Republicans have a
majority? First of all, it is always easier to criticize something
than to come up with something new. For seven years, Republican
politicians have railed against Obamacare but never made the effort
to develop a serious counterproposal.

When they finally got their turn, they cobbled together something
that would have meant tax relief for wealthy Americans through the
back door. This was because taxes that had been imposed on higher
incomes and wealth with the introduction of Obamacare were to be
rolled back. Not to mention the loss of health insurance for millions
of Americans. How so? Many people are unaware that under Obamacare,
the state health insurance program "Medicaid" was significantly
expanded in 32 states. I have previously written about the
state-sponsored health insurance for the poorest of the poor.
<RBLINK>20050319#10</RBLINK>
Washington enticed individual states under Obama with substantial
financial incentives if they agreed to provide health insurance to
more of their low-income citizens through Medicaid. Medicaid is
funded by taxes from both the respective state and the federal
government. Thirty-two states accepted the offer and relaxed their
conditions, allowing more low-income citizens to receive Medicaid.
Under this regulation, 11 million citizens nationwide were
additionally insured. If one is insured under Medicaid, the insured
typically does not pay health insurance premiums and is also exempt
from co-payments.

California expanded its Medi-Cal program (in California, Medicaid is
called Medi-Cal) particularly generously. In 2016, a total of 12.2
million Californians were insured through the state Medi-Cal program.
This is a record number, considering that California only has 30.25
million residents. In 2016, a four-person household in California
qualified for state insurance if their income was $33,534 or less.
Individuals could not earn more than $16,395 per year to access
Medi-Cal. This corresponds to 138% of the Federal Poverty Level
(FPL). However, higher income limits apply in California for pregnant
women (income between 138% and 213% of the poverty level) and
children under 19 (households with income up to 266% of the
established poverty level).

Republicans have long been critical of the Medicaid insurance
program, and they planned not only to roll back Obamacare but also to
implement significant cuts to this social program. The now-failed
legislative proposals aimed to cut off funding for the expansion of
Medicaid programs, meaning that states would no longer receive
additional funds to continue insuring a higher proportion of their
citizens through Medicaid. Additionally, it was proposed that each
state would receive a fixed amount for its Medicaid programs per
Medicaid beneficiary.

Currently, it is the case that poorer states or states with higher
healthcare expenditures receive more. For example, California
currently receives 64.1% from Washington, while Wyoming only gets
51.1%. However, these planned restrictions on the Medicaid insurance
program were among the reasons why Republican Senators Susan Collins
from Maine and Lisa Murkowski from Alaska voted against the entire
bill. John McCain also ultimately said no. So, for now, everything
remains the same. The problem is that Obamacare actually needs urgent
improvements to prevent insurance premiums from skyrocketing and to
avoid the collapse of the insurance market. However, Trump announced
that he intends to let it come to that.

@Z: The translation of "Öffentliche Bücherschränke" to English is
"public bookcases" or "public bookshelves." These are typically
small, free-standing structures where people can take or leave books
for others to enjoy.

<pic images/book-shelf-total.ps Free used books in the public
bookcase around the corner from us.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Around the corner from us on Chattanooga Street, there is a little
wooden box in front of a house that looks like a birdhouse. However,
it's not birds that are nourished here in the winter, but rather
book-hungry neighbors, as it is a public book exchange.

If you don't want to throw your finished book into the recycling bin
or let it gather dust on the bookshelf, you can place it in the box,
and a like-minded reader will take it later. Everyone is allowed to
place and take books for free. Naively, I thought: One of our
neighbors had a really charming idea, until I found out during my
research on the internet that these so-called public bookcases now
exist in many countries, including in...
<LINK>https://www.lesestunden.de/karte-oeffentlicher-buecherschraenke
|The translation of "Deutschland|Bücherschränke in Deutschland" to
English is "Germany|Bookshelves in Germany.</LINK>
The German word "gibt" translates to "gives" or "there is/are" in
English, depending on the context.

<pic images/book-shelf-zoom.ps Well, who put in a German DVD?>

It seems I missed the trend. In the USA, Todd Bol from Hudson,
Wisconsin, started it. He set up the first little free library in his
front yard in 2009. In the meantime, he has established a non-profit
organization with the name...
<LINK>http://littlefreelibrary.org|Little Free Library" is already in
English. It refers to a small, free-standing structure where people
can take or leave books, promoting book sharing and community
engagement.</LINK>
Founded. The association's website indicates where public bookcases
are located in various countries and cities, provided that the owners
of the bookcases have registered them there. Those who are not handy
can also order ready-made book boxes through the association.

<pic images/free-library-noe-valley-town-square.ps In the marketplace
in our neighborhood, there is also a bookcase.>

Lately, Michael and I have been frequently placing German books and
DVDs in the little free library on Chattamooga Street, which always
leads to a few days full of suspense: Who will take pity on the
German books? Michael would, of course, love to install a camera to
see who takes our German literature. Our DVD series "München 7" sat
in the little library for a long time, but one day it was gone, and
we started speculating again. In any case, these public book boxes
are a great idea.

@Z: Router or Rooter?

<pic images/rooter.ps This is a rooter ("roo-ter"). The name of an
American plumbing company that has specialized in clogged pipes for
82 years.>

<em>Michael</em> 
Sometimes I listen to someone who is speaking normally, and suddenly
I think I'm going crazy because the person I'm talking to clearly
mispronounces a word. This often happens to me with Canadians; they
generally speak quite passable American English, and then suddenly
they slip in a wrong word: Did they just say "aboot" instead of
"about"? Bam! Exposed! Revealed as a non-American, it's hilarious!

Recently, the spokesperson for the German Tagesschau reported on a
hacker attack on devices in computer networks, and I almost fell off
the sofa because he said "Rooter" instead of "Router." Every child
knows that the word is pronounced "Rau-ter"; "Ruh-ter" isn't really a
word, but I could imagine it being some kind of drill used to clean
drains by reaching the root of the blockage, like the company...
<LINK>https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roto-Rooter|"Roto-Rooter"</LINK>
The phrase translates to: "has also been successful in America for 82
years.

<pic images/router.ps That is a router ("row-ter"). It directs
packets through the network.>

This mispronunciation seems to be common in Germany. Apparently,
people there find it chic to follow the absurd British diction
instead of the natural American one. Probably in Germany, they also
say "tomahto" instead of "tom-ay-to," and "garridge" instead of
"gar-ah-ge," and "frustrayyyy-ting" instead of "frus-trating,"
completely crazy, these people! Sure, British English has a firm
place in comedy series; it simply provides amusement when some snob
talks as affectedly as Austin Powers, but in everyday life, it just
seems silly. Something for my German English learners to think about!

@Z: Skateboard Tricks: The Ollie

<pic images/ollie-wiki.ps An ollie, performed by an experienced
skateboarder (Source: Wikipedia)>

<em>Michael</em> 
The German word "Im" translates to "in the" in English. It is a
contraction of "in dem," which is used in the dative case.
<RBLINK>20161030#6</RBLINK>
Have I already told you about my newly awakened passion for zooming
through San Francisco on a skateboard? You should also know that in
my youth, in the late 1970s in Germany, I used to race down the hills
in the Kriegshaber district of Augsburg with a skateboard and lots of
speed. However, I never had contact with real skateboard gangs where
I could have learned any tricks. The sport was simply too exotic in
Germany at that time.

In urban skateboarding in America, the main focus is on covering
larger city distances, essentially getting from point A to point B,
while skillfully and elegantly overcoming any obstacles such as
curbs, wheelchair ramps, or stair edges. Kids in California learn as
early as preschool age how to ride off a high curb without the
board's front edge getting stuck on the street and the rider stopping
with their chin. The trick is that the deck of a skateboard curves
upwards at the front and back, and when you place your foot on the
back and press down, the front of the board lifts, allowing you to
ride horizontally off the curb onto the street. The front wheels stay
in the air until the back wheels drop over the edge. It looks very
cool, especially if you maintain an unimpressed expression, as if you
do it 100 times a day.

<pic images/ollie-3.ps A simple trick, and the skateboard of an
expert lifts one meter into the air without using their hands.>

The reverse scenario, where the rider jumps from the street up onto
the sidewalk at the curb, requires years of practice to master the
so-called "Ollie." This maneuver was long considered completely
impossible and was only invented in 1978, long after skateboards
existed, by an American named Alan "Ollie" Gelfand. He discovered
that a skateboard can be catapulted up to a meter high horizontally
into the air without using external aids or hands. In an Ollie, the
rider stomps with full force on the back part of the board until it
hits the ground, while simultaneously sliding the front foot along
the board towards the tip. This double movement first lifts the front
of the board and then immediately levels it out again, quite high
above the ground. Really skilled riders not only jump up curbs this
way but can often seemingly effortlessly fly over beer crates, taut
ropes, or park benches.

<pic images/skate-cb.ps Skateboarding beginner Michael fearlessly
plunges down the low curb.>

I'm certainly not that good yet! Some time ago, I ordered a 40cm high
skateboard ramp from a mail-order catalog, but when I set it up in
our underground garage, I feared I would break all my bones. At my
age, you have to go to work the next morning and can't hang around in
the emergency room! So, I ordered special low ramps on eBay, which
race car drivers use to push their lowered cars onto the scales
before a race. It took some courage, but with elbow and hand
protectors, I finally drove over the ramp, which was 5cm high at its
highest point, in the privacy of our underground garage, away from
the public eye, for the first time.

<pic images/californiacation.ps The opening sequence of the series
"Californication" shows a few skateboarders near the beach.>

In the meantime, I have even slightly improved; when I dash to the
factory bus stop in the morning or to the supermarket a few streets
away in the evening, I can already ride up and down the lowered
curbs. I still need to practice the ollie, but I'll get there.

@Z: Millions, billions, and trillions.

<pic images/billion.ps When an American says "billion," he means
"milliarde.>

<em>Michael</em> 
What are 1,000 million? In Germany, that's a "Milliarde." Americans,
who are generally more inclined towards exaggeration, say "a
billion." For example, a few years ago, Facebook paid 17 billion
dollars for WhatsApp, and American newspapers wrote "17 billion
dollars." So far, so good--just another word for "Milliarde"--if it
weren't for the German word "Billion.

If a "Milliarde" in German is called a "billion" in American English,
then what is a German "Billion" in American English? A German
"Billion," which is a million million, a number with 12 zeros, is
called "a trillion" by Americans. However, and this is where it gets
really crazy, this is a completely different number from the German
"Trillion"!

A German trillion is not just 1,000 American "trillions," as the
difference between "Billion" (German) and "billion" (American) might
suggest, but rather 1,000 times more than that, which is a million of
them! Today, we learn in the newsletter: 1,000 German billions make a
billiard, and only 1,000 billiards make a German trillion. So, a
German trillion contains a million American "trillions." And, to
repeat, 1,000 American "billions" make a German billion. When Der
Spiegel in illustration (#1) asks whether Amazon, Apple, Google, or
Facebook will be the first to reach the "billion-dollar wall,"
Americans might be puzzled, as these companies are already worth
about "600 billions" in their terminology.

<pic images/spiegel-billion.ps (#1) Which company will be the first
to reach the 1,000 billion mark?>

You might be wondering why I referred to the numbers as
America-specific and didn't just point out a language difference
between German and English: Our special friends on the other side of
the English Channel, the quirky Brits, also claim a special exception
in the numbers market. Their "billions" and "trillions" follow the
German standards, not the American ones. A British "billion" is
therefore a thousand times higher than an American "billion.

<pic images/rebillionize.ps Russ Hanneman from "Silicon Valley" hates
the doors of his millionaire BMW and demands billionaire-worthy
Lamborghini scissor doors.>

Back to everyday life: The "billionaires" so despised by toxic social
critics like Bernie Sanders are merely measly billionaires. In the
HBO comedy series "Silicon Valley," there is even talk of
"rebillionizing": A venture capitalist plagued by setbacks has fallen
from billionaire status to an ordinary millionaire in the show. His
luxury BMW disgusts him because he would prefer to stylishly emerge
from a Lamborghini with gull-wing doors. He is determined to climb
back into the ranks of billionaires and is feverishly working on his
plan to "remilliardize.

@Z: Waimanalo

<pic images/waimanalo-beach-combers.ps The translation of "Zwei
Strandläufer in Hawaii" to English is "Two beach runners in Hawaii.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Hawaii has become something like our second home, and we try to spend
at least a week there every year. Usually, we fly to Oahu and stay in
Kailua on the eastern side of the island, because there is a great
beach and no large hotel complexes. However, this year our favorite
accommodation was not available, and we decided to try something new.

<pic images/waimanalo-beach.ps During the week, there is not much
going on at the beach.>

Since we are now very familiar with Oahu, we knew about the small,
inconspicuous place called Waimanalo, which is located at the eastern
lower tip of the island, before reaching Kailua when coming from
Honolulu. There are no hotels here either, but rather a few vacation
cottages for rent, often located in the landlord's garden. You can
count the tourists in the town on one hand, and with a population of
5,450, they don't really stand out.

<pic images/waimanalo-cottage.ps Garden cottage for vacationers.>

The place looks a bit "run-down" in some areas (as Michael originally
put it). However, a few somewhat dilapidated houses and a few
homeless people camping at one spot on the beach don't deter us that
easily; we're used to different things from San Francisco. There's a
gas station, a post office, the Japanese-inspired supermarket
"Shima's," where you can buy very good poke at the poke bar, a shrimp
stand, a co-op selling Hawaiian products, and several other small
shops.

Next to the somewhat misplaced McDonald's on the main street, a vegan
restaurant with the beautiful name "Ai Love Nalo" (meaning "I love
Nalo") opened in August 2015, two years ago. "Nalo" is an
abbreviation for Waimanalo. Enthusiastic, friendly people cook here
without using animal products and support Hawaiian organic farmers.
The food was top-notch. I had a Mediterranean-inspired dish, the
"Medi Bowl," and I'm still raving about the beet hummus, while
Michael enjoyed a Portobello mushroom burger. But we don't just go to
Hawaii to eat. The Pacific Ocean and the beaches are the highlight of
a Hawaii vacation. And Waimanalo boasts one of the best beaches on
the island. It is bay-like and 9 km long. The sand is white and
powder-fine, and the water is turquoise with great waves for beginner
boogie boarding. The beach is almost deserted, especially on
weekdays. At the far end of Waimanalo Beach is the military base
"Bellows Air Force." The "Bellows Beach Park" on the military base is
only accessible to the general public on weekends. This is quite
unusual in Hawaii, as Hawaii does not allow the privatization of
beaches. Every beach must be publicly accessible. However, since the
beach in Waimanalo is so vast, we weren't drawn to the area near the
military base anyway. In any case, Waimanalo is a hidden gem.

@Z: Metzgerei Lucca" translates to "Lucca Butchery" in English.

<pic images/lucca-4.ps The butcher shop "Lucca" in our neighborhood
is one of the last specialty stores.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
In a city changing at a crazy speed, it's reassuring when not
everything falls victim to the excavator's tooth or the craze for
chains. In our neighborhood, at the corner of Valencia and 22nd
Street, there is an Italian delicatessen.
The text "Lucca Ravioli Co." is already in English. It refers to a
company named Lucca Ravioli Co., and the URL provided is likely the
website for this company.
...where delicious Italian sausages and groceries have been available
for purchase since 1925.

<pic images/lucca-1.ps The store advertises its specialties in a
truly authentic Italian way on hand-painted signs.>

<pic images/lucca-anchovies.ps The anchovies are stored in one of the
rustiest cans in America.>

The shop is small, but it has a long sausage and cheese counter that
stretches throughout the entire store. Behind the counter stand
salespeople in white coats and white caps on their heads, who still
understand their craft. Fans of Italian delicacies will get their
money's worth here: salami, ham, cheese, homemade pasta, olive oil,
grappa, everything your heart desires. We recently bought a super
delicious tongue sausage there, which immediately delighted the
salesperson, as the majority of Americans apparently feel queasy at
the mere thought of tongue sausage.

<pic images/lucca-2.ps On Saturday afternoon, there is a lot of
activity.>

We ate them right away on the good bread from Josey Baker, super
delicious! Like Michael in
<RBLINK>20140914#4</RBLINK>
As previously reported, Josey Baker is a trendy baker in San
Francisco, and his last name is actually "Baker," which means baker.
He bakes really good bread, like the kind we know from Germany. Such
businesses are reminiscent of the old San Francisco from twenty years
ago, which is now threatened with extinction. I hope that butcher
Lucca will remain with us for a long time. Greetings from the city in
transition:

The translation of "Angelika & Michael" to English is "Angelika &
Michael," as these are proper names and typically do not change when
translated between languages.

