San Francisco, 11-12-2017

@Z: Inside San Francisco's Sewage System

<pic images/sewer-tour.ps Residents learn where their wastewater goes from the knowledgable guide.>

<em>Michael</em> What happens after we flush the toilet? To find out, we booked
a tour of the "San Francisco Public Utilities Commission Wastewater Treatment
Plant" in the Bayview district at the end of August. Promptly at 9:45 on a
Saturday morning, we had to report at the visitor entrance wearing long pants
and closed shoes (!), and after an hour of theory, we were immediately equipped
with helmets and latex gloves.

<pic images/sewer-tourists.ps Typical sewage tourists>

San Francisco has what's called a "combined sewer system," which means it
directs toilet flushes and other household wastewater together with rainwater
that runs into the sewers through the same pipe to one of the city's three
wastewater treatment plants.

<pic images/sewer-flow.ps The wastewater smells quite terribly on its way to purification..>

There, machines first filter out non-decomposable parts from the wastewater,
and we were informed that so-called "flushable wipes," or wet toilet paper,
contrary to what the packaging claims, do not decompose in the wastewater.
Instead, they are fished out at the sewage treatment plant along with other
solids by large rakes and stored in a landfill.

<pic images/sewer-collect.ps A machine fishes out non-decomposable parts from the wastewater.>

<HTMLONLY><pic images/sewer-buttons.ps Unfortunately, pressing buttons was not allowed.></HTMLONLY>

What remains is foul-smelling brackish water redolent of excrement, whose
sludge content slowly settles to the bottom, where it is then removed and
chemically thickened until it has about the consistency of hot asphalt. It is
subsequently used as fertilizer on fields where no food is grown. The water is
then further purified by microorganisms, disinfected with chlorine, and pumped
out through a pipe extending about 50 meters into the San Francisco Bay. About
80% of San Francisco's wastewater is thus returned to the cycle, with the
remaining 20% undergoing a similar process (but without chlorine) into the
Pacific Ocean.

<pic images/sewer-sludge.ps This sludge is chemically thickened and goes to the landfill.>

Americans often affectionately refer to excrement as "Poop" or "Number Two" or
"#2". The latter is used so that little kids can differentiate between pee
("Number One") and poop ("Number Two"). The slogan of the sewage treatment
plant was quite catchy, proclaiming that the brown sludge from the sewer is the
city sewage plant's top priority, as, right? "Your #2 is our #1", which was
actually emblazoned on stickers that workers proudly wore on their helmets.

<pic images/sewer-clean.ps Purified wastewater that can go back into the Bay>

During heavy rain, especially in surrounding cities with smaller facilities
like Pacifica, it can happen that the sewer pipes and the additionally
installed catch basins fill up, and then there's no time left to clean the
sludge, which then goes directly into the Pacific Ocean without further ado.
This also explains the warning signs that appear on the beach after heavy
rains, prohibiting swimming. I've always wondered where that came from. Of
course, the surfers there don't take any notice of warning signs; come what
may, they go into the water, as the waves don't surf themselves.

@Z: The New Dishwasher

<pic images/dishwasher-ready.ps Our kitchen now features a German made dishwasher.>

<em>Michael</em> Recently our old washing machine gave up the ghost. In America,
the landlord is responsible for providing replacement kitchen appliances if
they break down, but since ours would have undoubtedly been replaced with
another noisy, low quality appliance that makes you think the door's open and it's
impossible to entertain guests or even watch TV while it's running, we decided
to bite the bullet and buy a quiet Bosch dishwasher. Its customer reviews
on Amazon weren't exactly mind-blowing, but German products have gone downhill
in quality and nowadays have pretty bad
reputation in America (just like German cars that often sit in repair shops), so
what can you do? We were just hoping for the best.

<pic images/dishwasher-gap.ps Just before the installation

The new dishwasher was delivered by two strong men who hardly spoke English,
and upon my request, it was not installed by professional personnel because I
wanted to do it myself to save the $150 which it would have cost extra
otherwise. Who would have thought I'd learn some things for life in the
process!  Fortunately, there are plenty of hobby craftsmen on YouTube who show
how to connect the power cable and the water supply pipes, so that part was
pretty straightforward.

<pic images/dishwasher-electric.ps (#1) Screw clamps hold the power cable.>

In America, dishwashers are usually only connected to the power grid using
screw clamps like in Figure (#1). In many residences, there is only a cable
coming out of the wall under the sink, and after the plumber has pushed the
dishwasher into its niche, he unscrews the metal cover at the bottom of the
machine, frees up the electrical connector that is marked with numerous
warnings, insulates the ends of the cable from the wall, twists the wires with
those of the machine, and screws on caps. Those who forget to disconnect the
power source may experience an unpleasant surprise when someone later removes
the dishwasher from its niche and forgets to unclamp the cable beforehand. The
Bosch dishwasher, however, had a very elegant outlet cover that is screwed
under the kitchen sink, which requires a separate power cord and plug that you 
have to buy yourself, and can then be plugged into any nearby socket.
Fortunately, I learned electrical engineering back in the day!

<pic images/dishwasher-tray.ps A small shelf captures any droplets from the water connection.>

It suddenly occurred to me that the new Bosch vacuum cleaner was about 3
centimeters smaller than the previous American model, so I fitted a wooden
strip which I had bought for a dollar at a hardware store and then blackened
with paint into the gap. Later on, I learned that every dishwasher model can
indeed be raised using locking wheels to such an extent that it can also cope
with high kitchen cabinets. Next time, I'll know!

<pic images/dishwasher-height.ps A self-made wooden bar conceals the gap.>

And the drain hose must first be led up from the machine, above the height of
the siphon, according to the strict "Code" of the American Plumbing
Association, and then, like in a fountain, tumble down through an air gap. This
prevents backflow into the dishwasher's fresh water supply in case of blockages
in the sink or siphon clogs. Whether it's actually that important to install an
air gap, where the water from the drain hose first sprays upwards and then
falls into a catch area that leads it further into the siphon or the garbage
disposer, I don't know. It's probably one of those old regulations that Joe
Schmoe follows blindly and religiously, as is often the case in American
bureaucracy.

<pic images/air-gap-all.ps The air gap, to prevent backflow, required by the plumber's union.>

If the dishwasher does not shred the coarse food residues but simply sprays
them off the plate and pumps them away, these air gaps often get clogged, and
the hooby plumber scratches their head wondering why the dishwasher is not
pumping the water out. The fact that you can simply pull off the chrome cover
of the air gap and expose the drain hose by unscrewing the plastic cap hidden
beneath it, to then easily remove any trapped food particles, is something that
took me years to find out.

@Z: My New York Times Subscription

<pic images/kindle-nyt-title.ps For a whopping 19.99 Dollars a month, the New York Times is delivered daily to Angelika's Kindle.>

<em>Angelika</em> Political topics interest me a lot. Every day, I watch the
one-hour news program 'News Hour' on the public broadcaster PBS, and often
'Charlie Rose' as well. I also read the weekly magazine 'The New Yorker' and
important articles online in the 'Süddeutsche Zeitung' and 'Die Zeit.' It is highly
interesting to compare the reporting in various publications. The renowned
'New York Times' naturally cannot be omitted from this list.

Since newspapers no longer make money with their print versions because
everyone now reads the news online, more and more publications are
starting to charge for their online articles. For example, the New York Times
offers only 10 free articles per month. A reader can extend this a bit by
accessing the New York Times site on different devices, such as on a desktop computer,
a laptop, and a phone. But that hasn't been enough for me for a long time,
because I love reading the comments from various journalists on New York Times
opinion page.

<pic images/kindle-nyt-article.ps That's the way Angelika reads a selection of articles every day.>

These articles are called "Op-Ed" here, by the way, because they are
traditionally found on the page opposite the editorial page (Op-Ed: "opposite
the editorial page"). Anyway, for our anniversary, Michael gave me a Kindle.
And when I started using it, there was another surprise: the Kindle had a New
York Times subscription loaded on it. However, not all articles from the New
York Times are included in the daily Kindle version, but a selection is. This
selection is quite extensive, and the subscription includes unlimited access to
the articles on the New York Times website. By the way, the subscription costs
$19.99 per month. Now, every day I diligently read the articles on my Kindle
and feel like Gesine Cresspahl in the book "Anniversaries" by Uwe Johnson. This
protagonist also constantly reads the New York Times.

@Z: Smoke over the City

<pic images/smoke-sf-downtown.ps Downtown San Francisco Downtown is completely covered with smoke from Napa.>

<em>Angelika</em>
Four weeks ago on Sunday, around half past eleven at night,
it suddenly started smelling in our neighborhood as if everyone had lit their
fireplaces at the same time. We really thought that either there was a fire in
the neighborhood or one had broken out in our house. I'm constantly worried
that our house might go up in flames, especially since a few guys in our
apartment complex heavily consume alcohol and marijuana and aren't always fully
aware. Also, sometimes rather strange figures lurk around on our roof. So, we
always have to be on guard that nothing happens or no one gets the idea to
start a bonfire there. On that particular Sunday, we first opened the
balcony doors, but saw nothing. We only felt a warm strong wind blowing towards
us, which was odd because the wind here is never warm. Michael then searched
the internet to see if there was a fire anywhere in San Francisco. His research
turned up nothing. Then he asked on the neighborhood forum "Nextdoor" if it
smelled like smoke elsewhere, and in no time, despite the late hour, he
received 70 responses: Not only did our neighborhood "Noe Valley" smell like an
open fireplace, but all of San Francisco reeked of fire.

Soon it turned out that there were massive fires in the wine region of Napa,
about an hour and a half drive away, and the surrounding areas of Sonoma,
Calistoga, and Santa Rosa were ablaze. Fires in California in the autumn are
unfortunately not uncommon, as months without rain leave the vegetation
bone-dry, and just a small spark can quickly develop into a large wildfire,
especially when driven by the wind. Later, the fires in Northern California
this year turned out to be the worst in the state's history: over 40 people
died and 8,889 buildings were destroyed, including many well-known wineries.
Calistoga, which we visit every year for a long weekend
(<RBLINK>20060421#2</RBLINK>), was also threatened by
the flames but was saved at the last minute. The house of one of my colleagues,
who lives in Santa Rosa, was consumed by flames. She was able to get herself
and her four children to safety, but otherwise lost everything.

<pic images/smoke-sf-noe.ps Even in our neighborhood, everything was bathed in yellow light from the smoke cloud.1>

The air in San Francisco was as bad as in Beijing for days; the sunsets were
beautiful but eerie. I have never seen such a bright red sun in my life. People
were walking around everywhere with masks, though I'm not sure if that really
helps. In the East Bay, where I often worked, I even had ash on my car.

<pic images/costco-masks.ps To ensure they don't inhale even a speck of coal dust, these shoppers are wearing masks.>

We've had earthquake emergency kits under our bed for a long time (<RBLINK>20050925#9</RBLINK>), and an
emergency rope ladder that we can use to rappel down in case it's no longer
safe to use the stairwell. These kits naturally contain only practical items,
and then we also have a fireproof safe with Michael's external hard drive and
our will. We should probably also add our passports and Green Card, and my
computer backups, so that my many photos, which I am so attached to, don't get
lost. But what would we miss? What would be irreplaceable? What would we
quickly gather if we only had minutes to leave the apartment?

<pic images/smoke-mask-bike.ps This cyclist is protecting himself with a mask from the smoke plumes from Napa.>

Our answers might seem a bit cliché, but Michael would miss his collection of
tools, and I would miss my jewelry. The reasons are similar: Michael has
accumulated his tools over the years and even bought some at the traditional
store Kustermann on Viktualienmarkt during a visit to Germany. For my jewelry,
it's not about the relatively low material value, but about the sentimental
value. I often buy jewelry when we are traveling, and Michael has given me many
beautiful pieces for birthdays, anniversaries, and other special occasions.
Good friends have also given me jewelry over the years. Thus, each piece of
jewelry and each tool tells a story.

<pic images/napa-firefighters.ps In front of a scorched hill near Napa, there is now a sign expressing thanks to the emergency responders.>

Experts familiar with disasters often advise not only to pack practical items
in your emergency kits and backpacks but also to include a box of personal
items that are irreplaceable. I find this to be an interesting exercise. What
would you put in such a memory box?

The fires will have long-lasting effects on the entire Bay Area, particularly
exacerbating the housing crisis. Even before the devastating fires, there was
only a 1% vacancy rate for apartments and houses in Santa Rosa and the Napa
wine region. However, at least 5% of the housing stock in Santa Rosa was
destroyed by the fires. Even if homeowners decide to rebuild, the evacuees will
need somewhere to live until their homes are ready. But this could take a
while, as the owners of the burned houses must not only deal with their
insurance companies but also ensure that the land is not contaminated with
pollutants. The ash must be removed first.

<pic images/sf-smoke-baybridge.ps Smoke visible on the horizon at sunset from the Bay Bridge.>

Additionally, there is a shortage of construction workers. Those who are in a
particularly difficult situation are the renters who lost their apartments in
the fires, as they generally aren't among the high earners, and rents, which
were already extremely high, are likely to increase further due to the housing
shortage. Already, most people in the Bay Area spend 30-50% of their income on
rent, with some even spending more. Although the
<LINK>https://oag.ca.gov/consumers/pricegougingduringdisasters|California Penal Code Section 396</LINK>
prohibits price gouging after disasters (prices cannot be increased by more
than 10%), this doesn't help renters who have lost their affordable housing to
the fires and now need to find something new in an overheated market. Many fear
that this will lead to even more low-income earners leaving the Bay Area. The
area is already experiencing shortages of teachers, cooks, dishwashers, and
other service industry workers, who are essential to the community.

@Z: Top Produkt: Febreze Air Freshener

<pic images/febreze.ps Not at all intrusive and eco-friendly in a pump bottle: the bamboo scent from Febreze.>

TODO

<em>Michael</em> Ich bin ja sehr geruchsempfindlich, nichts versaut mir den Tag
so wie billiges Parfüm oder Schweißgeruch, wenn mal wieder ein Kollege in der
Arbeit noch nie etwas von Deodorant gehört hat. Am schlimmsten ist
Essiggestank, Angelika macht manchmal Experimente daheim, um irgendwelche
Materialien für ihren Gruppenunterricht mit Essig herzustellen, da krieg ich
die Krise. Oder der Gestank von abgestandenem Essen, wenn Angelika mal wieder
im Auto Mittag gegessen hat und ich am nächsten Tag damit fahre. Pfui!

<pic images/tree-scent.ps Grauenhaft süßlicher Kunstgestank in Tannenbaumform.>

Amerikaner sind ebenfalls geruchsempfindlich, aber zu einem Grad, der
geradezu lachhaft ist. Die meisten können gerade noch Camembert essen,
ohne in Ohnmacht zu fallen, Emmenthaler schaffen nur besonders mutige und
richtige Stinker wie Limburger, Münsterkäse oder mal was französisches
wie Époisses de Bourgogne rühren vielleicht noch 1% an, der Rest 
schaltet tragbare Tischventilatoren ein, wenn das gute Stück auf den
Tisch kommt.

Bringt man sein Auto hier zur Waschanlage, putzen es fleißige Mexikaner auch
von innen und spritzen auch gleich noch etwas "Air Freshener" hinein, was auf
Deutsch angeblich "Lufterfrischer" heißt. In den Autos vieler
Amerikaner baumelt auch ein christbaumähnliches Symbol am Rückspiegel, 
das laufend künstlichen Gestank absondert, der ebenfalls Frische 
vermitteln soll. Beliebte Duftnoten des Herstellers "Little Trees"
sind allerlei Früchte wie "Grüner Apfel" oder "Kokosnuss". War nie so mein
Fall.

Aber neulich, als ich wieder mal Essensgestank aus dem Auto entfernen musste,
fand ich im Target-Supermarkt eine Sprühflasche des Duftsprayspezialisten
"Febreze", der auch Dufttüchlein für den Trockner herstellt. Das Produkt heißt
"Febreze One" und versprüht einen Bambusduft mittels einer Pumpflasche, wie ich
sie noch nie gesehen habe. Man betätigt einfach den Hebel ein paarmal und nach
drei, vier Mal versprüht der gleiche Hebel dann den Duftnebel wie wenn Treibgas
drinnen wär, was aber nicht der Fall ist. Nicht so doof wie andere
Pumpflaschen, bei denen man wie ein Idiot oben reindrücken muss, damit ein
lasches Spritzerl vorne rauskommt, sondern es geht wirklich wie von selbst und
vorne haut's einen dermaßen mächtigen Nebel raus, dass man seinen Augen nicht
traut. Wirklich ein Topp-Produkt. Der Duft ist unaufdringlich, er machte kurzen
Prozess mit dem Essensgestank im Auto und ich konnte wieder entspannt Gas
geben.

@Z: Jährliche Krankenkassenwahl in der Firma

<pic images/united-healthcare.ps Eine traditionelle Krankenkasse mit freier Arztwahl wie United Healthcare? >

<em>Angelika</em>
Trump und Konsorten hatten sich ja bemüht, Obamacare abzuschaffen, sind
aber damit nicht durch\-ge\-kommen. Das war kürzlich ein Dauerbrenner 
in den Nachrichten. Nicht so bekannt ist, dass die meisten 
Arbeitnehmer in den USA ihre Krankenkasse nicht über Obamacare sondern
immer noch durch den Arbeitgeber erhalten.

Auch wir sind über Michaels Arbeitgeber krankenversichert. Ich könnte 
auch über die Einrichtung, für die ich arbeitete, eine Krankenkasse erhalten, 
bin aber statt dessen bei Michael mitversichert, da er bessere Konditionen 
bekommt. Der Arbeitgeber wählt nämlich eine oder mehrere Krankenkassen aus
und bietet sie dann den Angestellten an, die sie jedes Jahr neu im
sogenannten "Open Enrollment" auswählen müssen.

Große Firmen bieten in der Regel nicht nur verschiedene Krankenkassen an,
sondern auch noch verschiedene "Pläne", also Verträge mit unterschiedlichen
Leistungen. Michaels Arbeitgeber bietet zum Beispiel die Krankenkassen "United
Healthcare" und "Kaiser" an. Wir wählen immer "United Healthcare" als unsere
Kasse und können dann wiederum zwischen zwei verschiedenen Plänen auswählen.
Meist geht es um die unterschiedliche Höhe der Praxisgebühr, die Höhe der
Selbstbeteiligung, die freie Arztwahl und die Höhe der monatlichen Beiträge.
Der Arbeitgeber beteiligt sich in der Regel an den monatlichen Beiträgen, aber
es gibt keine festgeschriebenen Prozentsätze über Arbeitgeber- oder
Arbeitnehmeranteil. Die Firma zahlt in der Regel einen wesentlichen höheren
Prozentsatz der Beiträge als der Versicherte, aber bei meinem Arbeitgeber 
wäre es deutlich weniger als bei Michaels.
 
Jedes Jahr, in der Regel im Herbst, fordert die Firma die Angestellten dazu
auf, die Versicherung neu festzulegen, dabei kann man die Krankenkasse wechseln
oder einen anderen Plan wählen. Natürlich gilt das nur für die Krankenkassen
und -pläne, die die Firma anbietet. Auch kann die Firma die Konditionen
verändern, zum Beispiel kommt es häufig vor, dass die Beiträge steigen, die
Selbstbeteiligung oder die Praxisgebühren sich verändern. Das Ganze nennt sich
wie gesagt "Open Enrollment". Der Arbeitnehmer entscheidet sich im Herbst und
die neuen Konditionen gelten dann ab dem 1. Januar.

<pic images/kaiser.ps ... oder doch lieber die günstigere Sozialkasse Kaiser Permanente mit weniger Wahlmöglichkeiten?>

Die meisten Firmen bieten
noch andere Zuckerl für den Arbeitnehmer an, für die man sich in dieser Phase
ebenfalls entscheiden kann. Bei Michael sind das zum Beispiel Zahnarzt- und
Brillenkasse, die Möglichkeit, eine kostenlos angebotene Lebensversicherung
durch Zahlung eines geringen Beitrags zu erhöhen oder eine Lebensversicherung
für den Partner und die eigenen Kinder abzuschließen oder eine
ebenfalls bereits angebotene Berufsunfähigkeitsversicherung aufzubessern.

Auch bestimmt der Arbeitnehmer, ob und wieviel er in den sogenannten "Flexible
Spending Account" (<RBLINK>20091104#10</RBLINK>) einzahlen will, der
steuerfreie Einzahlung für vorraussichtlich anfallende Behandlungskosten
gestattet. Die steuerfrei erlaubte Höchstsumme beträgt zur Zeit $2600. Wie
gesagt, nicht jede Firma bietet so einen großzügigen Katalog von Leistungen an.
Bei mir gäbe es im Vergleich nur Kranken- und Zahnarztversicherung und die
Möglichkeit in den "Flexible Spending Account" einzuzahlen. Da staatliche
Sozialleistungen in den USA begrenzt sind, versuchen Firmen, gute Leute nicht
nur über vernünftige Gehälter an Land zu ziehen, sondern auch durch die
angebotenen Zusatzleistungen.

In vielen Gegenden, so auch im Silicon Valley, herrscht zur
Zeit fast Vollbeschäftigung und dadurch ist es nicht immer einfach, Stellen
mit qualifizierten Leuten zu besetzen. Neulich hörte ich im Radio, dass die
ersten Firmen bei der Rückzahlung von Studentendarlehen
helfen, um Leute zu kriegen und offene Stellen zu besetzen. Denn das
Studieren kostet in den USA ja viel Geld und gerade Leute mit höheren
Abschlüssen arbeiten nach abgeschlossenem Studium oft jahrelang einen
riesigen Schuldenberg ab.

Auf ähnliche Weise ist das Krankenkassensystem in den USA übrigens erst
entstanden, nachdem Arbeitgeber ihren Angestellten eine Krankenkasse anbieten.
Im Zweiten Weltkrieg ging die Angst vor der Inflation um und die amerikanische
Regierung beschloss, Löhne und Gehälter einzufrieren. Das gefiel den
Gewerkschaften gar nicht, sie drohten mit Streiks und auch den Arbeitgebern war
das Gesetz ein Dorn im Auge, da sie dringend Arbeiter brauchten, aber keine
höheren Gehälter anbieten konnten, um diese zu rekrutieren.  Daraufhin
beschloss die amerikanische Regierung, dass eine vom Arbeitgeber angebotene
Krankenkasse nicht als Gehaltszahlung anzusehen ist und somit von der
Reglementierung ausgeschlossen war. Firmen boten dann eine Krankenkasse an, um
ihre Firma attraktiver für Arbeitssuchenende zu machen.  1943 beschloss die
amerikanische Steuerbehörde, dass vom Arbeitgeber angebotene
Krankenkassenzuschüsse von der Steuer befreit sind und etablierte damit das
heutige Krankenkassensystem der USA.

Übrigens macht es gerade dieses System
so schwierig, ein nationales Krankenkassensystem für die USA zu etablieren,
denn Firmen haben diese Leistungen stets freiwillig angeboten mit wenig
staatlichen Regulierungen. Unter Obamacare müssen Firmen mit einer bestimmten
Anzahl von Mitarbeitern diesen jetzt zwingend eine Krankenkasse anbieten, 
um Geldstrafen zu
vermeiden, aber Obamacare steht immer noch auf wackeligen Füßen, wie ihr ja
wisst. Doch es gibt wieder Hoffnung, dass die Bevölkerung jetzt doch Obamacare
mehr schätzt. Auch für Obamacare kann man sich jedes Jahr im Herbst
einschreiben und die ersten Zahlen sehen gut aus. Am 1. November startete die
Einschreibphase für Obamacare und die Beitrittszahlen sind höher als im 
letzten Jahr. Schon verrückt: Erst schimpfte ein großer Anteil der Bevölkerung
über Obamacare und jetzt, wo man es ihnen wegnehmen will, merken viele auf
einmal, dass es besser ist als sein Ruf.

Grüße aus Smokeytown:

Angelika \& Michael
