San Francisco, 12-17-2017

@Z: Shucking Oysters Yourself

<pic images/oyster-open.ps With gloved hands, Michael opens the oyster with a special knife.>

<em>Michael</em> 
In restaurants, we like to order a dozen oysters as an appetizer,
"On the Half Shell," as Americans call the opened and raw oysters,
which are served with great fanfare on ice chips on large silver
platters on one foot high stands. It's a nice pastime, but not exactly
cheap, as a dozen oysters in the restaurant can easily cost $35.

<pic images/oyster-jr.ps The wholesale fish dealer "J.R. Seafood" in the Bayview district also sells to the average consumer.>

At a birthday party some time ago, we learned that you can also buy
oysters at the wholesale market and, with a bit of practice, open and
serve them yourself. So one Saturday morning at ten, I quickly drove
10 minutes to the Bayview neighborhood to buy a dozen raw oysters.
Beforehand, I had purchased the necessary safety equipment on Amazon:
two oyster knives and an iron glove "Made in Germany", that latter for the
exorbitant price of almost 100 dollars. Since I have to type a lot
and quickly for my job, my hands are my capital, and I didn't want to
take any risks. Additionally, I had watched a series of videos on
YouTube where experienced "oyster shuckers" demonstrated how it's
done correctly.

Upon arriving at "J.R. Seafood," I initially thought the store was
closed, but the door was open. Although there was no one in the sales
area, I heard a few figures bustling around in the walk-in freezer. I
realized that restaurants naturally stock up on fresh seafood as
early as 6 a.m., and apparently, no one but me sleeps in on a
Saturday and then shows up at 10 a.m. to buy oysters.

<pic images/oyster-bag.ps I transported the dozen oysters home in the car on ice in a plastic bag.>

I cheerfully said hello and was greeted in Spanish, but since I
don't speak Spanish, I continued merrily in English, asking if I
could have a dozen oysters, preferably ones that would be easy to
open. "All of them are easy to open," laughed the man from the
freezer, returned with a plastic bag, and I gave him the $11 in cash
as listed on the board in the salesroom. That's how simple it is!

<pic images/oyster-lower.ps Once the upper muscle is cut and the lid is removed, the lower muscle comes next.>

At home, I placed the oysters individually with the rounded side down
on a towel, inserted the oyster knife into the narrow hinge at the
long end, as seen in the YouTube videos, while holding the oyster
firmly with my armored left hand. You have to insert the knife forcefully,
but you must not let the opening shatter, otherwise, you'll end up
with a mouthful of small shell fragments when eating the oyster later. Then you
go around and
pry the oyster open sideways. Then run the knife blade blindly to the
upper end on the inside, and cut the upper adductor muscle, trying not to damage
the meat of the oyster. After that, the top shell can be easily
removed, and once you've separated the oyster meat from the shell on
the rounded lower side with the knife, you place it on the ice in the
serving dish, and it's ready!

<pic images/oyster-plate.ps Properly opened and professionally prepared by Chef Michael.>

The whole procedure for a dozen oysters was completed in five
minutes; it goes surprisingly smoothly once you get the hang of it.
When buying, make sure that the oysters are hermetically sealed; an
already opened oyster is dead and should not be eaten. We weren't
exactly sure how long you could store the oysters in the ice bag, so
we ate them at 11 a.m. with a glass of champagne and homemade sauce
made from vinegar and onions, very delicious!

@Z: Prison Inmates As Firefighters

<pic images/la-fire.ps Good firefighters are needed for large fires like the recent one in Los Angeles. Photo: flickr[lafd|lafd/37978238785]>

<em>Angelika</em> 
In California, we're currently wondering a bit if the end is near, as
devastating wildfires are raging once again. This time, it has hit
Southern California, in the areas of Los Angeles, Santa Barbara, and
San Diego. The Santa Ana winds keep fanning the flames, and
firefighters are working around the clock. When we were in Los
Angeles over Thanksgiving, we couldn't believe how warm it was there
at the end of November. People were sunbathing in bikinis on the
beach. We felt like we were on Hawaii. The fantastic weather was nice
for us, but almost a bit eerie, because although it's usually warmer
in Los Angeles than in San Francisco, we had never experienced such
temperatures there in the winter months.

The consequences followed
swiftly, as just a week later, it was ablaze. Jerry Brown, our
governor, remarked that California would have to prepare for seasonal
fires extending well into December, due to climate change. Normally,
there are no wildfires in December.

<pic images/san-quentin.ps The state prison in San Quentin, north of the Golden Gate Bridge. Photo: flickr[stevekocino|stevekocino/4138471061]>

In case of fires of this magnitude, not only do firefighters from the
immediate area respond, but forces from all over California are
mobilized, with some even coming from neighboring states. However,
it's not just professional firefighters who battle the flames;
even prison inmates join the effort. In California, there has been a program
since 1940 that involves inmates in firefighting:
<LINK>http://www.cdcr.ca.gov/Conservation_Camps|Conservation Camps</LINK>.
Prison inmates volunteer for it, receive a short training, and
are then immediately put to work.

However, they only receive the assignment if they behave well in
prison, are physically fit, are not serving long-term sentences, and
are not incarcerated for arson or sexual offenses. They earn $1 per
hour for their work and receive a two-day reduction from their
sentences for each day of service. The low pay saves taxpayers about
$100 million per year. More than 3,700 inmates have signed up for the
program, which is roughly one-third of California's firefighting
force. The program is controversial; some critics equate it with
slave labor. The number of inmates volunteering for the service has
been declining for years. This is because prisons in California are
completely overcrowded, and the state of California has since
released non-violent inmates early multiple times to reduce
overcrowding.

@Z: David Sedaris

<pic images/david-sedaris.ps Author David Sedaris is giving a reading in San Francisco.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Michael is very difficult to buy gifts for because he always buys
what he needs for himself. It has happened several times that I
bought something for him, and the next day he came home beaming with
the same item. Therefore, I have now started creating so-called
experience gifts. For his birthday in November this year, I got him
tickets to a reading by David Sedaris.

The event took place at the San Francisco Opera House, which
initially surprised me because the opera house has almost 3,150
seats. Would an author who writes humorous essays fill such a large
venue for a reading? And, lo and behold, the house was sold out.
I discovered
<LINK>http://www.davidsedarisbooks.com/bio.html|David Sedaris</LINK>
many years ago because a colleague mentioned him as
her favorite author. He also frequently writes short stories for the
weekly magazine "The New Yorker," which I've been subscribed to for many
years. However, I prefer listening to him.

He narrates his own books when they are released as audiobooks. He
has a unique high-pitched voice and reads the stories from his life
so humorously that I have often laughed to the point of tears while
listening. His stories incorporate a lot of autobiographical
elements: his childhood in Raleigh, South Carolina, where he grew up
with five siblings in an American-Greek family; his homosexuality,
his drug use, the many crazy jobs he took on to make ends meet before
he became well-known. I could listen to the short stories about his
experiences in various airports and airplanes or at the dentist in
Paris over and over again.

The evening at the opera in San Francisco also delighted us. Sedaris
conducted the approximately 90-minute reading at the lectern and
read, among other things, excerpts from his new book "Theft by
Finding," which is a compilation of his diaries that he has been
keeping since 1977. We had good seats, which I snagged on the online
portal StubHub. The tickets were issued in the name of the original
buyer and were sent via email. On-site, the printouts were scanned
and accepted without any issues, although I was a bit nervous.

<pic images/stubhub-warriors.ps The ticket online platform "Stubhub">

What's <LINK>https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/StubHub|Stubhub</LINK>?
People who bought tickets from the official organizer sell them
auction-style to the highest bidder on a platform (an eBay company).
The ticket remainder that remains with the viewer after the ticket taker
removes a part is called a "stub," and a "hub" in this context is the
platform where the tickets are traded. Selling concert tickets in
this manner is called "scalping" in the USA and is officially
prohibited on-site just before the event begins. Nevertheless, before
every concert or sporting event, you can always find "scalpers"
excitedly waving tickets and illegally selling them to interested
parties on the access routes. In 38 of the 50 American states,
however, selling tickets from private individuals to private
individuals is allowed as long as it doesn't happen at the event
venue itself, and StubHub fills this gap online. The business model
is controversial because many tickets circulate at inflated prices
this way, and businesspeople who buy tickets on a large scale make a
profit at the expense of concertgoers. In 2016, the Obama
administration passed a law called the "Better Online Ticket Sales"
(BOTS) Act, which stipulates that only individuals are allowed to buy
tickets online and prohibits operators from using software bots.

@Z: Thanksgiving in Venice Beach

<pic images/venice-arnie.ps On the trail of Arnold Schwarzenegger in Venice Beach.>

TODO

<em>Angelika</em> 
Thanksgiving is known as the most sacred of all holidays in the USA.
Every year on the third Thursday in November, families gather at home
to eat turkey, and since American families like to move and often
live scattered across the country, everyone and their brother travels
back to their hometowns for the occasion.

<pic images/i5-harris-sign.ps Stopover from the long drive to Los
Angeles at the Harris Ranch.>

Most employees not only have Thursday off but also Friday, which can
be combined into a 4-day weekend. A pure luxury in the USA, where
paid vacation is rather scarce. Tim Cook, the CEO of Apple, usually
announces a few weeks before Thanksgiving that the entire
Thanksgiving week can be taken off at the company's expense, giving
most Apple employees a free holiday week without having to use their
vacation days. Unfortunately, this does not apply to people working
in Apple stores, as the Friday after Thanksgiving is a popular
shopping day (called "Black Friday"). It is also not guaranteed that
Tim Cook will give the whole week off, but we always take a bit of a
gamble and book something for the week before the announcement comes,
especially since I love to travel.

<pic images/i5-harris-steak.ps Prime Rib Medium Rare: A small snack
for exhausted drivers.>

This year, we drove our small Honda Fit, nicknamed "Brummi" by
Michael, on the I-5 freeway for six hours south to Los Angeles.
Although the I-5 freeway is the fastest route, it is also one of the
most boring roads in California. It goes straight through the flat
areas of California, where fruits and vegetables for the entire USA
are grown. Drivers whizzing by also see large herds of cattle. The
landscape is flat, the ground is bone-dry, and for years there has
been a dispute in this area over who gets how much water, because
water is needed for the fruits and vegetables to grow, and water is
scarce in California. Farmers in this region often feel cheated by
the politicians in Sacramento. Due to the long drought period in
California, they receive less water for irrigating their fields or
have to pay more for water, which has led to fallow agricultural
land. As you drive along the I-5, you frequently encounter signs with
slogans like "Food Grows Where Water Flows.

<pic images/i5-water-sign.ps Farmers are upset about California's
water rationing.>

<pic images/i5-harris-cattle.ps Thousands of cattle at Harris Ranch
on the edge of Interstate 5.>

As a driver, you fight against fatigue on this route. That's why we
always stop at the...
<LINK>https://www.harrisranch.com/home|Harris Ranch" is a proper
noun, so it does not need to be translated into English. It refers to
a specific place or entity, such as a ranch or business, and proper
nouns typically remain the same across languages.</LINK>
The location is 300 kilometers south of San Francisco on the I-5 in
Coalinga. There are only fields for miles around, and suddenly, out
of nowhere, the ranch with a restaurant, hotel, Tesla charging
station, and souvenir shop appears. The restaurant is huge and has
three different areas: a bar, a steakhouse, and another restaurant
where families with children usually gather because they are not
allowed in the bar. We usually go to the bar because you can get a
table faster there. However, the restaurant is not for vegetarians,
as it offers juicy steaks in all varieties, which is naturally due to
the fact that Harris Ranch is one of the largest beef traders and
producers in California. It has been family-owned since 1937, making
it a true Californian institution.

<pic images/manhattan-beach.ps Even at the end of November, you could
still go swimming in L.A. this year.>

After his stomach is full, it takes another three hours to get to Los
Angeles, provided there is no traffic. However, traffic jams are a
part of everyday life in Los Angeles. We were then drawn back to
Venice Beach.
<RBLINK>20130921#5</RBLINK>
.. a district of Los Angeles that is located right by the ocean and
is characterized by bohemians, sun worshippers, surfers, old hippies,
good restaurants, the Venice Beach Boardwalk, Muscle Beach, where
Arnold Schwarzenegger once honed his muscles, and a large number of
homeless people.

<pic images/beach-bike.ps In Los Angeles, you can definitely ride a
bicycle.>

Venice Beach was independent until 1926, but now it belongs to Los
Angeles. This time, we stayed in a beautiful vacation apartment that
we found through...
<LINK>http://vrbo.com|The translation to English is "Vacation Rental
By Owner.</LINK>
..we had rented. It was only 100 meters from the beach. The vacation
apartment resembled a loft, and the bed was only accessible via a
ladder. We knew this, of course, when we booked the apartment, but at
night the climbing was a bit annoying, and so we often lay in bed and
thought twice before going down to the bathroom. The owner of the
apartment is an architect by profession and has her house at the back
of the property. The vacation apartment was furnished like something
out of an issue of "Schöner Wohnen" (Beautiful Living). There was
also a rooftop terrace exclusively for us, and since the sun was
shining brightly, we often sat above the rooftops of Venice Beach and
enjoyed the view.

<pic images/venice-studio.ps A nice holiday apartment almost directly
on the beach.>

<pic images/venice-studio-ladder.ps The bed, however, is only
accessible by a ladder.>

Our vacation apartment also offered two bicycles that we were allowed
to borrow. Los Angeles is considered a total car city, which is true,
but we are always amazed at how many bike paths there are now,
especially in the neighborhoods or small towns that are directly on
the Pacific Ocean. And it's not just tourists on the bikes, but a
colorful mix of families with children, road cyclists, and casual
Sunday riders.

<pic images/la-bike-angelika.ps Even when using a rental bike,
Angelika is required to wear a helmet.>

The Marvin Braude Bike Trail, also known as "The Strand," runs 22
miles (about 35 kilometers) almost always parallel to the beach and
stretches from Will Rogers State Park in Pacific Palisades through
Santa Monica, Venice Beach, Manhattan Beach, and Hermosa Beach to
Torrance Beach. Only a small section leaves the beach, and cyclists
have to weave through side streets in Marina Del Rey, but even here,
there is a bike lane separated from the road for most of the route.

<pic images/la-hb-surf.ps Probably one of the best surfers at the
beach of Manhattan Beach.>

We cycled the path both north and south and discovered the charming
coastal town of Manhattan Beach. To Michael's delight, the ocean
there was very suitable for surfing, so we drove there twice more by
car. Michael put on his wetsuit, which he had brought from San
Francisco, rented a surfboard at the beach, and surfed the waves with
the locals. @Z: Sushi for Advanced Learners

<pic images/sugarfish-sushi.ps Always good: A visit to "Sugarfish" in
Santa Monica.>

<em>Michael</em> 
If you're visiting Los Angeles, you must not miss the chance to visit
the top-notch sushi restaurants there. One of our favorite spots is
"Sugarfish" in Santa Monica. We always drive there from Venice Beach,
and always at odd times, like three in the afternoon, because
otherwise, the place is packed, and you have to wait in line for
hours. Over the decades, we've found that on weekday afternoons, you
either get a table immediately or have to wait at most ten minutes.
We routinely park in the municipal garage 100 meters away for the
bargain price of two dollars (beware, the parking garage right next
to it is private and more expensive).

Good sushi includes, as already mentioned...
<RBLINK>20130921#5</RBLINK>
Once executed, it's far more than just placing pieces of fish on
lumps of rice. First of all, cooking rice is not that simple.
Japanese sushi chefs spend their entire first year of training just
learning how to cook rice. The master only lets them handle the fish
after that, if they haven't already given up in frustration. At
Sugarfish, they use extra hard rice, which they have to cook for an
extra long time, one of the employees there once told me, and it
tastes quite extraordinary. I usually don't like rice that much, but
sushi rice (which is seasoned with vinegar) and especially the
Sugarfish rice, I could shovel into myself endlessly.

<pic images/east-side-sushi.ps Interesting movie on the topic of
"Sushi".>

Then, of course, the fish must be freshly caught and is not simply
cut open unprepared for preparation, but only after it has been
massaged in all possible ways, slowly gently warmed, and subjected to
various secret rituals. It is served at room temperature,
incomparable to supermarket sushi from the refrigerated shelf.
Japanese restaurants sometimes follow truly absurd traditions that
should actually be banned in a modern country like America. Firstly,
only Japanese people work behind the counter in traditional sushi
restaurants. It is practically unheard of to find non-Japanese sushi
chefs in expensive sushi places, with a notable exception being a
very good restaurant around the corner from us in San Francisco,
where a South American arranges fish on appetizer plates among
Japanese chefs. However, I believe he is (still) not allowed to make
sushi rolls. Furthermore, there are virtually no female sushi chefs
because the Japanese believe that women have a higher body
temperature than men and supposedly ruin the raw fish by touching it.
No kidding, they really believe that! I got it from the film.
<LINK>http://www.imdb.com/title/tt2340650|East Side Sushi" is already
in English. It refers to a location or establishment, likely a sushi
restaurant, on the east side of a city or area.</LINK>
The story is about a South American cook who desperately tries to
find a job in a Japanese restaurant and is constantly rejected until
she finally succeeds through immense perseverance.

I further categorize sushi enthusiasts into three groups: those who
think that "California rolls" are sushi, the popular American maki
rolls with avocado and snow crab. Then there are those who have
ventured into eel (Unagi) with teriyaki sauce, and like Hamachi
(yellowfin tuna) or Toro (the fattier tuna belly). And finally, the
experts who order fish roe in various forms (Tobiko, Ikura), as well
as monkfish liver (Ankimo), and finally the queen of expert sushi,
made from the gonads of sea urchins, called Uni (Figure #1).

<pic images/sugarfish-uni.ps (#1) Sushi for advanced: Gonads of a sea
urchin, called 'Uni'.>

Uni tastes very unusual, somewhat earthy like the mud on the shores
of the San Francisco Bay at low tide, a bit like an oyster but very
creamy and much more intense. The taste lingers for a very long time,
sometimes for hours, which is why a portion (i.e., two pieces) of
uni, which costs about $15 at Sugarfish, should always be consumed at
the end of an opulent meal. It is best washed down with a
neutral-tasting Japanese beer (Sapporo, Asahi, Kirin) or
alternatively with lukewarm or cold sake.

@Z: Koreatown

<pic images/k-town-sign.ps In the Koreatown district, Los Angeles
offers old facades and spicy grilled meat.>

<em>Michael</em> 
In San Francisco, we go to Japantown to eat so often that I always
joke we might as well rent a place in one of the retirement homes
there. Recently, in Los Angeles, we visited the neighborhood of
Koreatown, known among insiders simply as "K-Town." Located slightly
south of Hollywood and a bit west of Downtown, the area attracted
many Korean immigrants in the 1960s, who opened shops in the old Art
Deco buildings there. To this day, you can still find these
relatively well-preserved houses from the 1920s in Koreatown.

<pic images/k-town-grill.ps In a restaurant that serves "Korean BBQ,"
a chef fires up the grill at the table.>

In Korean cuisine, aside from the spicy pickled cabbage "Kimchi,"
grilled meat is particularly popular. Typically, at a Korean BBQ, a
small gas grill is built into the restaurant table, which the waiter
lights up after taking the order and bringing the ordered raw grilled
meat. In the better restaurants, the waiter also takes care of the
grilling, turning the meat on the grill while moving from table to
table. Koreans especially appreciate beef marbled with fine fat
veins, but also enjoy chicken, pork, and specialties like heart or
tongue. According to Korean sources, there isn't a single place in
San Francisco or the wider Bay Area that serves even remotely
authentic food; instead, people are directed to Los Angeles.

<pic images/la-quarters.ps At the Korean BBQ restaurant "Quarters".>

We drove, as is typical for Los Angeles, by car to Koreatown on a
weekday around 2:30 in the afternoon, got stuck in a bit of traffic,
parked, and went straight to one of the most renowned BBQ joints
there, "Quarters." Despite the unusual hour, we had to wait 15
minutes for a table; in the evening, according to Yelp, the wait time
is several hours. The food was very delicious; we ordered the
beginner's combo of beef and pork, and about 10 small pots with
appetizers like kimchi or pickled cucumbers were on the table. The
lunch cost about $100 with drinks, which is roughly the price level
of San Francisco. In the evening, the place is said to be bustling,
with young people strengthening themselves with grilled meat before
or after visiting nearby clubs, chatting so loudly that you can't
hear your own word. I believe that without verification!

Greetings from La-La-Land

The translation of "Angelika & Michael" to English is "Angelika &
Michael," as these are proper names and typically do not change when
translated between languages.

