Santa Fe, December 26, 2017

@Z: Christmas 2017

<pic images/weihnachten-2017.ps Christmas 2017>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Christmas is here, and the Christmas newsletter still needs to go
out, as it does every year. I'm very late, but this year I took a
long time to decide what to write about, because there are plenty of
topics since Trump has been in the White House. However, many others
have already written extensively about him this year, and that's
exactly what our esteemed President wants. So it's best to give him
as little attention as possible.

TODO

The Christmas celebration in the traditional sense should always
invite a bit of reflection and pause, and that's why I want to
introduce you to a podcast produced by inmates at the notorious San
Quentin Prison, which reports on life in a California prison. San
Quentin is located 12 miles north of us on the San Francisco Bay and
is one of the oldest and largest prisons in California. Over 3,700
men are incarcerated in San Quentin. The prison also has a unit where
inmates sentenced to death are held. San Quentin is the only prison
with such a death row for men in California. Women are incarcerated
elsewhere. However, executions can only be carried out in San Quentin
in California, which hasn't happened for almost 10 years. I'm
surprised anyway that the death penalty exists in California, as
California is a rather liberal state. Therefore, there are always
initiatives through referendums to abolish the death penalty, but so
far none have garnered a majority.

Many believe that San Quentin is a maximum-security prison because it
has death row. However, this does not apply to the other inmates.
California prisons follow a numerical categorization into four
different security levels. In security level 1, inmates are housed in
dormitories similar to youth hostels with bunk beds and only minimal
supervision. In level 2, there are still dormitories, but with
increased supervision. In level 3, inmates are housed in cells that
may adjoin exterior walls. In the highest security level, level 4,
inmates are housed in cells that do not adjoin the prison's exterior
walls. San Quentin has most of its accommodations in security levels
1 and 2 and, as mentioned, the death row. The state of California
determines which inmate falls into which security level through a
point system. With 0-18 points, the inmate ends up in the lowest
security level 1; 19 to 35 points lead to the second security level.
Those with 36 to 59 points are placed in a level 3 prison. And at
level 4, the inmate has more than 59 points. The point system takes
into account age, type of crime, gang membership, and so on.

You might be wondering now how I know all of this, but that...
<LINK>http://www.cdcr.ca.gov/Ombuds/Entering_a_Prison_FAQs.html|Calif
ornia Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation</LINK>
The system explains this in detail on its website. Many inmates want
to be transferred to San Quentin because the prison offers a variety
of programs, such as gardening, yoga, a bicycle repair workshop,
courses to manage aggression, and even the opportunity to earn a
university degree. Additionally, the inmates publish a newspaper.
Most of these programs are maintained by external volunteers. For
example, one of my colleagues is one of these helpers. Every
Thursday, she goes to San Quentin and assists inmates who are about
to be released with practical life matters, such as applying for a
driver's license after their release. Incidentally, another former
colleague had her father incarcerated in San Quentin for drug
offenses and often talked to me about San Quentin.

But I actually wanted to talk about "Ear Hustle." The podcast is
produced by inmates in San Quentin, with the help of artist and
photographer Nigel Poor from San Francisco, who has been volunteering
in San Quentin for years. What makes it special is that the show is
produced for the outside world and is not an internal prison radio
program. In prison jargon, "Ear Hustle" means something like curious,
unauthorized eavesdropping. Nigel Poor and inmate Earlonne Woods host
the show. Earlonne is serving a sentence of 31 years to life for
attempted robbery. The sentence probably seems draconian to you, and
that's true. Sentences in the USA are generally much higher than in
Germany. In California, the so-called "Three Strikes Law" leads to
long prison sentences. "Three Strikes" refers to the baseball game,
where if the player with the bat fails to hit the ball after three
attempts, he is out. Until 2012, repeat offenders in California faced
a minimum sentence of 25 years to life after two serious offenses,
regardless of whether the third offense was serious or involved
violence. However, in 2012, California voters decided that this was
too extreme, and now the third offense must also be serious or
involve violence to justify the increased sentence. Inmates sentenced
before 2012 can try to reduce their sentences under the new law
through a petition.

But back to "Ear Hustle": In addition to Nigel Poor and Earlonne
Woods, inmate Antwan Williams is also involved. He is responsible for
the audio and sound effects. Each podcast is dedicated to a specific
topic and interviews other inmates, with Earlonne always bringing his
own experiences into the show. Each episode is 30 minutes long. It's
not about sensational reports or the question of who is guilty or
innocent in prison; rather, it describes everyday life in prison from
the perspective of the inmates. One podcast, for example, is
dedicated to birthday celebrations in San Quentin. An inmate, Drew
Sabatino, tries to ensure that this day is not forgotten by his
fellow inmates and creates not only a birthday card but also
something special to eat. Other episodes cover topics such as aging
in prison, solitary confinement, or "three-strikes" candidates who
will likely not leave prison alive due to long sentences. How does
one not despair in such situations? In one episode, inmate Curtis
Roberts speaks, who received 50 years to life for three non-violent
robberies. He starts writing a diary in prison because he no longer
has contact with his only daughter and uses these diaries to write
letters to her to keep from losing his mind. For me, the podcast "Ear
Hustle" has an almost poetic quality (despite the sometimes quite
colorful language), as the inmates are not portrayed as tough guys
but as people trying to cope with an impossible situation. Just tune
in at https://www.earhustlesq.com/. The podcast is free (though you
have to endure a bit of advertising) and is available on Google,
Apple, Spotify, and so on. You can also brush up on your English
while listening.

In this spirit, we wish you a Merry Christmas and an interesting New
Year.

The translation of "Angelika und Michael" to English is "Angelika and
Michael.

