San Francisco, 09-23-2018

@Z: Car Control Clinic in Marina

<pic images/ccc-track.ps Our Honda Fit is performing an evasive maneuver.>

<em>Michael</em> One of my colleagues is a passionate hobby race car driver who
lets loose on official race tracks on the weekends. One day, he suggested that
I participate in a so-called safety training, where you learn to skid
your car without losing control. The training was conducted by the "Golden Gate
Chapter" of the "BMW Club of America" on an old airfield just outside the town
of Marina near Monterey. Now, I don't drive a BMW, but a 1998 Acura Integra,
but you didn't need a BMW to participate. The fun cost about $200 per person,
and I thought Angelika would surely enjoy it too, so I signed us both up.
However, Angelika preferred to participate with her car, a 2011 Honda Fit, and
I had concerns whether my Integra would pass the inspection since the
conditions stated "must not leak oil," so I reluctantly agreed.

<pic images/ccc-start.ps Last instructions from the race director shortly before the start.>

The training took place on a Sunday, so we drove the 100 miles down to Marina on
Saturday, stayed overnight in a motel, and drove to the test site early in the
morning. We felt quite underpowered because, during the vehicle inspection, a
Lotus Elise was parked next to us, and many participants were driving BMW
models M3 and M5. But at least no one laughed at us!

During a brief introduction, we learned that it was extremely important to
overcome any fears and step on the gas so that the car would enter the extreme
situations that mastering was the goal of the course. Nothing was worse than
driving safely and learning nothing! Well, of course, they didn't have to tell
me that twice.

Approximately two dozen instructors took care of the participants by jumping
into the cars to ride along in the passenger seat while the drivers raced
through a course of plastic cones. If the tires only squealed moderately and
the driver didn't knock over any cones, they would shout, "Faster, you're too
slow!" And if one of the drivers completely lost control and rammed sideways
into a row of cones, there would be a standing ovation.

The first exercise was a braking maneuver, and I was amazed at how quickly a
car with ABS can come to a stop from 30 mph when you slam on the brakes. In
regular traffic, you can never try something like that because it's far too
dangerous, but on an empty airfield with plenty of space, where at worst you
might knock over a rubber cone, you can skid around with ease. Next, there were
evasive maneuvers at around 30 mph with slight skidding and squealing tires, a
circular drive where you adjust the radius only by accelerating and without
steering, and finally a slalom course where we learned to bring the car to the
traction limit of the tires at each cone until it almost went out of control.

<pic images/ccc-award.ps (#1) An award because we made the most progress in our group!>

That was such a huge amount of fun, you can't even imagine it. Angelika was a
bit reserved at first, but by the end of the all-day course, she was also
driving through the course with squealing tires, and the instructors were so
pleased that they awarded us the special prize "Most Improved" of all the
drivers in our group (see Figure (#1)).

I can warmly recommend the course to every driver. The enthusiasm of the
instructors (by the way, all volunteers) was absolutely contagious, and the
adrenaline rush when the car loses control is an unforgettable experience. And
once you have practiced such maneuvers, you'll recall them later to avoid
dangerous situations in traffic. This could eventually prove to be extremely useful.

@Z: Salinas

<pic images/salinas-shoes.ps Field workers are staying in tourist motels in Salinas.>

<em>Angelika</em> Since our car rally started at 8 a.m. and took place 100
miles south of San Francisco, we stayed overnight in the Californian city of
Salinas. If you're a fan of the American author John Steinbeck, you might
have heard of Salinas. The author was born there in 1902, and many of his
works, such as "The Grapes of Wrath," deal with Salinas and the migrant workers
who still work in the fields in and around Salinas today. Salinas has only
about 150,000 residents but is also called "the salad bowl of the world"
because of its agriculture. There are also relatively many illegal immigrants
living in Salinas, although there are no exact numbers because illegal
immigrants are not exactly keen on making their immigration status public.
However, everyone in California knows that people without papers work in the
fields. The lettuce would probably be much more expensive if that weren't the
case, or it would simply rot in the fields if the illegal labor were to
disappear as Trump and his associates wish.

<pic images/salinas-foodline.ps Dinner distribution for the field workers in the motel parking lot.>

We stayed at a rural motel in Salinas, the kind you find all over America,
because there were hardly any accommodations left. Apparently, everyone and
their dog was traveling that weekend. We had already read on "Yelp" that
workers who labor in the surrounding fields were also housed at the motel.
This didn't bother us, of course. When the employee at the reception
asked us if we wanted a room on the second floor and in the building that was
further away from the street, we naturally said yes, because there's nothing
worse in American motels than having a neighbor stomping around above you, as
the buildings are almost always built with extremely thin walls. While
unloading our luggage, we noticed that the doors to some rooms were open, and
when we naturally peeked inside out of curiosity, we saw bunk beds, which are
extremely unusual in motels. In front of the rooms, there was a neat row of
work shoes lined up. Our room, of course, didn't have bunk beds, but we had our
suspicions.

When we later returned from a short walk, we were somewhat startled because
suddenly a bunch of young men stormed out of their rooms as if bitten by a
tarantula. We suspected there was a fire alert. However, it turned out that the men
were all lining up in a single file in the parking lot, patiently waiting in
front of a white pick-up truck for the distribution of dinner. Some people
maliciously claim that this is modern slavery.

@Z: Moving furniture with an app: Lugg.com

<pic images/sofa-craigslist.ps Our old sofa was looking for a new home.>

<em>Angelika</em> After years of persuading Michael, I finally got a new bed a
year and a half ago (<RBLINK>20161222#7</RBLINK>), and I thought to myself, that
worked out well, now we also need a new sofa. After all, we've had our old one for
almost 20 years, and it was getting a bit worn out, and I didn't like the shape
as much anymore. So we tried out various sofas in furniture stores and
eventually found the right model again at the Canadian furniture store EQ3. The
waiting time for the good piece was a solid 6-8 weeks, as the sofa was built
for us in Winnipeg, Canada, and upholstered with the fine leather we had
chosen. When the delivery company informed us that our sofa was ready for its
grand debut in our living room, we started to scramble a bit, wondering where
to put the old one.

Anyone who has ever tried to give away an old sofa knows what I'm talking
about. Our sofa was indeed older, but still in good condition. The fabric was a
bit faded on one side and not as vibrant red as when it was new, but the sofa
was neither sagging nor broken, so it was far too good for the junkyard. We
thought, let's just donate the sofa to Goodwill (<RBLINK>20030310#5</RBLINK>)
for a good cause, but it wasn't as easy
as we thought. Goodwill is a large non-profit organization that accepts all
kinds of donations, and they even want sofas. The company supposedly works with
a third-party provider that picks up the sofas, but they never answered the phone
or checked their voicemail when we called. By the time they finally called us back
after weeks, we had already gotten rid of the old sofa. The organization
"Salvation Army" also accepts sofas and even picks them up. However, the next
available pickup date was four weeks later, and we didn't want to have two
sofas sitting around in the apartment for four weeks.

Michael also made an effort on "Nextdoor" (<RBLINK>20140914#5</RBLINK>), the
neighborhood portal, to get someone to take the sofa. An older couple was also
interested and came by to try it out, but then realized that our sofa was too
big for their apartment. We had, of course, provided the measurements, but they
had apparently overlooked that. So Michael posted a classified ad on
craigslist.org and lo and behold, a couple who had just moved to San Francisco
from Singapore showed interest. But they lived on the other side of town,
so how were they supposed to get the sofa from our apartment in Noe Valley to
their place? Sure, you can rent a small truck from U-Haul, but the downside is
that you have to carry the sofa to the truck yourself and drive the truck
through the city on your own.

<pic images/sofa-app.ps With the Lugg app, you can order movers in no time.>

But in the age of the internet, someone has naturally already come up with the
brilliant idea of offering the appropriate service for it. The company is
called <LINK>http://lugg.com|"lugg.com"</LINK>. "Lugg" apparently refers to lugging
furniture, and it has been around since 2015, now in
several cities in the US. The idea is that if someone wants to quickly
transport a few pieces of furniture within city limits from point A to point B, but
doesn't need a whole moving truck or doesn't want to become a mover themselves,
they install the app on their phone and enter the details of the transport.

In the next step, the customer chooses whether they need a pickup truck with
one "Lugger" (i.e., furniture mover) or two, or a slightly larger van. The
cheapest option for just one piece of furniture with only one mover costs $33
base price plus $0.85 per working minute across the city. For two "Luggers,"
the price increases to $45 plus $1.45 per working minute. Similar to the ride
services "Uber" or "Lyft" (<RBLINK>20130324#5</RBLINK>), the "Luggers" use their
own vehicle. The brilliant thing is that the whole process is quick. You can
have the moving truck at your door within half an hour, but of course,
you can also book further in advance. So, the next big Ikea purchase that
doesn't fit in your car is saved, because Ikea's own transport service usually
takes much longer.

The idea for "lugg.com" came from Jordan Brown, who worked for a small
healthcare startup in Salt Lake City and often encountered the furniture
transportation dilemma. Brown developed the app and then moved to San Francisco
to launch "lugg.com." The service is now available in San Francisco,
Sacramento, Seattle, San Diego, Los Angeles, Silicon Valley, and Orange County.

Everything went well for us. The "movers" did drag our sofa a bit across the
floor, which made me quite anxious, and of course, they didn't have a dolly
with them (this seems to be a common phenomenon even among professional
movers), but Michael is well-equipped in this regard. The new owners were able
to track the sofa on its way to their apartment via the app, and after half an
hour, it arrived safely. Our red sofa now has a new home.

@Z: Salesforce Tower

<pic images/mtower-view.ps Skyline of San Francisco with the massive Salesforce Tower (far left), photographed from our balcony.>

<em>Angelika</em> That we have been living in San Francisco for over 20 years
is also evident in how the skyline of San Francisco has changed over the years.
Our apartment offers a great view of the city, and the skyscrapers have
steadily increased over the years, so much so that the popular Transamerica
Pyramid is almost swallowed up by the new glass towers. The new so-called
Salesforce Tower, which opened in May, dominates everything now. Ironically, the
company Salesforce didn't even exist 20 years ago when we moved to San
Francisco. And now the latest skyscraper is named after the company that has rented
most of the offices in the building, and you guessed it, "Salesforce." The
skyscraper, at 1070 feet, is not only the tallest building in San Francisco
but also the second tallest west of the Mississippi. It now surpasses the
Transamerica Pyramid by 216 feet, which had been the tallest building in San
Francisco since 1972.

Salesforce Tower really follows us around at every turn in the city, and you
almost get startled when its somewhat bulky-looking tip suddenly juts out as if
from nowhere. In the evenings, the tip lights up in all sorts of colors thanks
to the light show consisting of 11,000 LED lights created by video artist Jim
Campbell. It looks almost eerie when the tip emerges from the fog and seems to
float on it. The street address of the Salesforce Tower is 415 Mission St., right in the
heart of Downtown San Francisco and directly next to the new Transbay Transit
Center, our regional bus hub.

<pic images/mtower-fog.ps In foggy conditions, as they're common in San Francisco, often only the tip of the Salesforce Tower is visible.>

The situation is not entirely without danger, as the building sits on ground
of soft soil and sand, and the skyscraper is just a stone's throw away from the
shore of the San Francisco Bay. In the event of an earthquake, however, soft
ground can become a problem. Soft soil can sink during an earthquake and easily
cause buildings to collapse. For this reason, tall skyscrapers were not
particularly popular among the population of San Francisco for a long time, but
the shortage of housing and office buildings has triggered a real construction
boom.

There are now 160 buildings in San Francisco that are higher than 210 feet
meters, and more are already in planning. All of them are located in downtown,
in close proximity to each other, which is also risky in the event of an
earthquake. Of course, everything is supposedly built to be earthquake-proof
with the latest technology, but ultimately, the whole thing has not been tested
in real life, only on paper or in computer simulations. Earthquakes are always
unpredictable. And the fact that the Millennium skyscraper, another building which is not far
from the Salesforce Tower, <LINK>https://www.mercurynews.com/2018/09/14/safety-measures-ordered-at-sinking-san-francisco-tower/|has been sinking for years|Millennium Tower is sinking</LINK>
and already has a measurable imbalance, doesn't exactly calm our nerves either.

@Z: Scoops of ice cream from the hipster shop

<pic images/smitten-ice-cream.ps Ice cream from the hipster shop is expensive, but it tastes very good.>

<em>Michael</em> When a new store opens in San Francisco, for example, one that
sells ice cream, you usually can't enter it during the first year of operation
due to overcrowding. What I call "Internet lemmings" swarm around such stores
like moths, and even if the line goes around the block, the millennial fool
will still join the end of it. What's an hour wasted in such a meaningless
existence as that of a hipster in San Francisco!

<pic images/smitten-store-front.ps Just a year ago, the lemmings were standing in line for hours in front of this store.>

The store "Smitten Ice Cream" on Valencia Street around the corner from us had
a similar experience. Initially, the ice cream shop was part of a mobile food
truck caravan, then it moved into a store on the hipster strip, where it became
so popular that you couldn't get in. But now, in about its second year of
operation, the hipster crowd has moved on to newer ice cream shops, and you can
simply walk into Smitten, order ice cream, pay right away, and start
enjoying it within 5 minutes. The ice cream vendors there make the ice cream
fresh when you order it, using dangerously hissing machines that, I believe,
use liquid nitrogen or some other devilish substance to produce a few scoops of
ice cream. The waffles also taste very good, which is why we treat ourselves to
a portion every now and then.

<pic images/smitten-store.ps Each serving of ice cream is freshly prepared by the employees when the customer orders it. Photo: flickr[Martin Hapl|haplm/8844382351]>

The only bitter aftertaste, however, is the price, as a portion (waffle and a
decent scoop) costs $7. Maybe I'm really getting old, but in my youth, a
portion of waffle ice cream cost first 10 pfennigs, then 20, and today maybe
one or two euros. In San Francisco, however, all popular shops now charge fantasy
prices. Officially, the inflation rate is only a few percent per year, but
anyone living here can tell you that the prices for everyday goods have
certainly doubled, if not tripled, in the last 10 years. The salaries of high
earners have also risen accordingly, so no one complains.

I only feel sorry for the tourists who come from Germany with their saved-up
Euros, rubbing their eyes in amazement when they realize what crazy prices we
pay for things that one could get in Europe at a fraction of the cost in
similar quality. Well, the market will, as always, sort it out; eventually,
every excess normalizes, and maybe then the hipster caravan will simply move
elsewhere, and San Francisco will return to the sleepy hippie nest it once was.
However, it is historically documented that such transformations can take
decades, so I wouldn't speculate on it happening in the short term.

@Z: Hawaii 2018: Ka'ena Point

<pic images/kaena-point-portrait.ps Two hikers on the way to Ka'ena Point on the northwest side of Oahu.>

<em>Michael</em> Vacationing on Hawaii every year, doesn't that get boring at some point?
For us, not really, because even after about 15 trips, we still haven't
explored every corner. Although we have now been to each of the seven publicly
accessible islands of the archipelago at least once, and in recent years we've
only been hanging out on the main island of Oahu, we still haven't explored
everything there.

<pic images/beach-bum-1.ps The northwest side of the island has always been occupied by beach bums.>

One of these white spots on our map was previously the northwestern tip of the
island. You first drive through the slightly rustic town of Waianae, then
continue north, past some settlements of local beach bums, to the somewhat
secluded, mainly frequented by locals, but breathtaking Keawaula Beach, until
the coastal road abruptly ends and only a rocky, winding path leads into a
nature reserve.

<pic images/beach-bum-2.ps The trend towards owning a second and third car among beach bums is noticable.>

<pic images/kaena-point-wreck.ps You can even see a car that has fallen down the cliffs on the hiking trail to Kaena Point.>

Travel guides can't stop going on about how cars are being broken into left
and right there, but that's totally laughable, especially if you're from San
Francisco, the world capital of petty criminals. You just don't leave anything
in the car, and then no one will break into it —- problem solved.

In the first few hundred yards on the winding coastal path, we also saw a few
parked off-road pickup trucks, whose owners had descended the narrow trails
down the cliffs to go fishing. There was also a car that appeared to have
veered off the path and crashed onto the rocks by the water.

After about half a mile, due to a broken off section, the path can only be continued on
foot, and after another mile, the astonished hiker encounters a
gigantic fence, which apparently has been erected by nature enthusiasts for the
purpose of protecting albatrosses, an endangered bird species, from their
natural enemies, some type of weasel.

<pic images/kaena-point-bridge.ps Tourist on stone bridge.>

In the breeding grounds of the albatrosses, we actually saw a surprisingly
large juvenile albatros sitting in a nest on the grass, similar to the young adults
nowadays called "Millennials," who, due to laziness and lack of income, still
live with their mothers at the age of 25.

<pic images/hawaii-kaena-point-wall.ps A fence built by nature lovers protects the albatrosses from weasels.>

<pic images/kaena-point-bunker.ps At the end of the path, at the northwestern tip of the island, there is a former military site that is now a bird sanctuary.>

All the way up there on the northwestern part of the island, the waves break so
powerfully that you think you are at the North Cape. Theoretically, you
could continue on the trail walking east until you reach the eastern section of the coastal
road, which runs along the north side of the island along the so-called "North
Shore." However, we had, of course, parked our car at Keawaula Beach and
therefore hiked back south.  Overall, it was an extremely rewarding hike, only
missing a proper inn to stop at the end of the trail, but that's something
Americans somehow don't really go for.

@Z: World Cup 2018: Soccer is becoming more and more boring

<pic images/world-cup-russia-spain.ps Drab game at the World Cup in Russia>

<em>Michael</em> Normal Americans generally lack any interest in soccer.
There's too little action on the field, endless back-and-forth in the midfield,
and maybe a measly goal in 90 minutes -— it's just not that exciting. During the World
Cup in Russia, we, as Germans living abroad, of course watched a whole series
of games, but I have to say that I now find the ball kicking and the fuss
surrounding the soccer players somewhat ridiculous.

Well, our German goon squad deservedly got knocked out in the preliminary
round, and with that, the excitement for us was somehow already gone. When you no
longer have a team to cheer for, the enjoyment of watching soccer on TV is reduced to the
actual game itself, and that has somehow become stagnant over the years.
Interestingly, no one questions how silly it actually is to watch 22 conceited
peacocks, who place immense value on their hairstyles and tattoos, kicking a
ball around. And what, as an adult interested in world affairs, do I care about
a dim little light like Özil, whose footballing failure seriously occupied the
evening news?

And then this constant cheating throughout the entire game! The constant falling down
for no reason, the injury faking, the whining to the referee, the theatrical
gestures at every whistle. What's happening on the field is simply pathetic
and dishonorable. During free kicks, the players in the wall are now packed as
tightly as in a slow fox dance and cling to their opponents like koala bears.
Isn't that rather strange for heterosexual men?

Every time the ball goes out of bounds, the arms of two players go up, even
though it's clear who knocked the ball out. How morally degenerate is someone
who finds this normal, and what kind of person lets themselves fall in the
penalty area to get a penalty kick to win the game, and then rolls around in
joy? Probably a similar type of person who cheats on diesel emissions and then
rejoices over the profits of the struggling German auto industry. That's just
not my thing.

@Z: Homeowners must repair sidewalks

<pic images/sf-sidewalk-tiles.ps Tree roots are pushing the slabs up over the years.>

<em>Michael</em> A single-family home in our neighborhood now easily costs
around 2 million dollars. However, what many newly wealthy people don't
consider when buying a house is that paying off a loan of this amount over 30
years not only requires about $7,000 net per month, but also incurs a lot of
additional costs.

Since the property tax in San Francisco is about 1.2% of the purchase price,
for a two-million-dollar house, around $22,000 per year, or almost $2,000 per
month, must be paid to the tax man. Fortunate is the one who has
calculated this beforehand, before making an insane bid on a house; many techies with
temporarily high salaries and zero knowledge realize this too late.

<pic images/sf-sidewalk-paint-1.ps When the union man comes with the spray can, the fun is over.>

And in addition to garbage collection ($200 per month), electricity (up to $400
with the new eco-friendly provider), water, sewage, and all sorts of
miscellaneous stuff, another $1000 per month quickly adds up. Repainting the
house? $20,000. New roof? $20,000.

Many people also do not know that homeowners must repair the sidewalk in front
of their house at their own expense if the typical approximately 3ft by 3ft stone
slabs in San Francisco are starting to crack. This mainly happens because of trees,
planted by the city at the roadside, which develop wild roots and destroy the
stone slabs from below with intense pressure. If the unionized city inspection team
then comes by and sees damage. The inspector marks the damage with a
spray can, and shortly thereafter, a letter arrives in the mailbox, requesting
the homeowner to repair the damage within 30 days.

<pic images/sf-sidewalk-paint-2.ps Oh dear, several slabs are broken, this is going to be expensive!>

And of course, not just any independent craftsman can take on the repair, but
only those authorized by the city's union officials, who work at exorbitant
prices. They start at $2,000, just to turn on the cement mixer.

Homeowners are, of course, resisting arbitrary actions by the authorities, and
in the meantime, court rulings have been issued stating that damages caused by
city tree roots after 2017 must very well be repaired by the city at their
expense. Or take the 30-day ultimatum, issued for such tasks: The homeowner is
only required to begin the repair within 30 days, but who knows how long it
will drag on with unreliable craftsmen!

Recently, one hears from Germany that homeowners are getting upset about having
to co-finance road construction in their communities, and they surely
think: "Typical German bureaucracy! It would surely be different in America!"
But they are mistaken, at least when it comes to liberal strongholds like San
Francisco or California in general: There, the bureaucratic red tape is even
more pronounced, and the financial burden on homeowners takes equally bizarre
forms.

Greetings from the city:

Angelika and Michael
