San Francisco, 12-08-2018

@Z: Smoke Cover Above the City

<pic images/smog-freeway.ps Looks like an episode of The Walking Dead: a smoke cloud over downtown San Francisco due to a burning forest 60 miles north.>

<em>Angelika</em> In November, San Francisco set a new, sad record. We
officially had the worst air quality in the world, even worse than Beijing. The
cause was a wildfire up north, in the small town of Paradise. Although the
place is a good three-hour drive north, in Butte County, wind and weather
brought the bad air filled with soot particles all the way to San Francisco.

We lived for more than a week as if under a smog dome. The sun was never really
visible, hidden behind a gray veil. It smelled like something was burning, and
we kept all the windows tightly shut for the entire week. Ventilating or going
outside was almost impossible, and we only did so if it was absolutely necessary. I
have never longed for fresh air as much as I did during this week.

<pic images/airnow-map.ps The government smoke meter reports unhealthy air quality throughout the Bay Area due to the fire in Butte County.>

California has always been affected by wild fires, but they have never before occurred so
frequently or destroyed so much landscape and settlements. There are many
reasons for this, such as drier winters with little rain due to the changing
climate. I still remember well when we moved to San Francisco at the end of
1996. It was pouring rain, and I immediately felt at home because it rained and
rained and rained just like in northern Germany. Nowadays, it rains
occasionally in the winter, but not enough to sufficiently soak the vegetation
and transform the gray hills into green oases. And a state where it doesn't
rain during the summer months needs a lot of winter rain and snow in
the higher elevations to cope.

<pic images/venice-power.ps Anyone who runs their electrical wiring so carelessly and close to flammable materials shouldn't be surprised if fires keep breaking out.>

Furthermore, California is very densely populated by American standards, and
human dwellings are often located way too close to, or even within, forested
areas. The town of Paradise was practically built into a forest. A single
spark was enough to start the inferno. It is not yet known with absolute
certainty what caused the fire in Paradise, but it is suspected that a power
line came loose due to the wind and began sparking.

<pic images/airnow-chart.ps The Air Quality Index (AQI) has spiked to 156, so you should stay indoors.>

Power lines in California typically are still installed above ground. With
this, all it takes is a strong wind, and disaster is almost inevitable. This
is because the power lines often hang close to trees and branches. Our utility
provider, PG&E (Pacific Gas & Electric), is now in such a predicament that many
are speculating the company might go bankrupt due to the lawsuits filed and the
potential fines and compensatory damages it may face. The last fire in Napa Valley a few
years ago was already attributed to PG&E, and the resulting wave of lawsuits is
keeping the courts busy.

<pic images/air-quality-sf.ps San Francisco has made it to second place among the cities with the dirtiest air in the world.>

Even in Paradise, some affected individuals have already sought lawyers,
although it is still unclear what caused the fire. PG&E is now taking
preventive measures by shutting off the power when the fire risk is too high.
This preventive measure affected the Napa wine region in October, and small
businesses had to cope with loss of power, inabilty to run their daily
operations and loss of income. Calistoga, a place we regularly visit
(<RBLINK>20060421#2</RBLINK>) lost a small café, the Calistoga Roastery, which
we're always frequenting when we are visiting up there.
It could no longer deal with <LINK>https://abc7news.com/weather/pg-e-wont-pay-claims-for-losses-suffered-by-calistoga-businesses/4644313|financial losses of $3000 per day due to power outages|PGE does not pay compensation for power shutoffs due to fire risk</LINK>.
But it's not always the power lines that are to blame.
Another fire in California started because a man was working on a metal fence
post with a hammer in the middle of dried-out vegetation, causing sparks to
fly.

<pic images/twin-peaks-smog.ps Even our view of the Twin Peaks hill was partially obstructed.>

Surprisingly, the fires are also worsening because they are being extinguished
better and faster. Human intervention is indeed a factor, because as houses increasingly
border nature, firefighters try to save the houses and do not simply let the
fire burn. However, smaller fires are important for land clearing, burning
bushes and grass that would otherwise fuel larger fires later. In California, the
topic of controlled burns is also becoming more prevalent, as they also help prevent
larger fires. Unfortunately, we will likely be experiencing poor air quality from
fires in San Francisco going forward again and again, as the problem was ignored for
decades, and solving it requires significant financial investments and time.

<pic images/skyline-smog.ps Due to the Camp Fire in Butte County, smoke plumes are hanging over the city.>

@Z: Top product: Air purifier by Levoit

<pic images/levoit.ps The air purifier helps in times with bad air quality.> 

<em>Angelika</em> Due to the poor air quality, not only were respirator masks
in San Francisco highly sought after and frequently sold out, but air purifiers
for living spaces also were in high demand. We, too, purchased one from
the company Levoit, which is headquartered in Anaheim near Los Angeles. The
LEVOIT LV-H132 humidifier not only looks good but is also supposed to filter
harmful particles from the air for your home. We definitely ran ours
extensively to ensure that even the last fine soot particle disappeared from
our living room.

@Z: Annoying Voices: Vocal Fry and Upspeak

<pic images/laryngoskop.ps Doctor examines cooing millennial. Source: Wikipedia>

<em>Michael</em> To find out why many Germans speak English with a terrible
accent, you only need to listen closely to a native English speaker and pay
attention to the intonation. While German has hardly any tonality, English is
pure sing-song. Americans raise and lower their voices several times in a
sentence, while Germans continue to drone on at the same pitch. To pronounce
English correctly as a foreign language, Germans have to make a real effort and
incorporate melodies like a canary. Because I only speak English at work, I
have already adopted such a sing-song that I regularly have to pull myself
together when I speak German so that it doesn't sound Americanized.

Now, American youth of the last 10 years have gotten into the habit of
expanding this sing-song and have added a few more components, so much so that it
regularly infuriates narrow-minded adults like myself when I have to listen to
brain-dead chatter with these mannerisms. The first bad habit is the so-called
"upspeak," the raising of the voice at the end of a sentence. While this is
normal for questions, it shouldn't be done at the end of every sentence, but
that's exactly what Millennials do these days: "So I went to the cafe? Ordered
a drink? It was pretty expensive?" It's enough to drive you crazy.

<VIDEO>FsqW8jdlaSk|Is vocal fry stupid or unhealthy?</VIDEO>

<VIDEO>s_LmC-ynqGM|Scientific explanation of vocal fry.</VIDEO>

The second bad habit is the so-called
<LINK>https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vocal_fry_register|Vocal Fry</LINK> and for
that, I need to elaborate further. Humans have a total of three so-called
registers that determine the pitch of spoken (or sung) voice, regulated by the
"glottis," a gap in the throat between the vocal cords. In the normal state of
this gap, humans speak with a normal pitch. When the vocal cords are tightly
constricted, falsetto is produced, which means a high-pitched voice like Mickey
Mouse. Serious people don't do this. Now, if the vocal cords are relaxed so
that air bubbles through the gap with a vibrating sound, the so-called
strohbass, also known as the fry register, is created. In English, this is
called "vocal fry" or "creaky voice," and the use of this register is, for no
good reason, spreading almost epidemically among young women and gay men.

Prominent fashion dolls croak and coo these days, producing very awkward
noises, seemingly without noticing they're out of whack. The sound is not easy
to describe; if you have never consciously noticed it, it's best to listen to
it on the referenced YouTube videos and endulge. It sounds completely
idiotic, this croaking. But if an uneducated young woman is sitting in some
talk show, you can time it with a stopwatch until she starts doing it. What are
these young people thinking these days? Sometimes I wonder if the future will be a
hopelessly dystopian world.

@Z: Goodwill pop-up branches

<pic images/goodwill-inside.ps Randomly set up, but selling old junk like hotcakes: The goodwill pop-up.>

<em>Michael</em> We don't exactly live large in a small city apartment, so we
have to save space and always make sure that the old junk we no longer use
disappears quickly. That's why every six months we go through our wardrobe and
ruthlessly sort things out. The old T-shirt that keeps getting pushed further
down the pile and hasn't been worn in six months? Out it goes. The pants that
are too tight? Goodbye. Or the old computer monitor that's still good but has
been replaced by newer technology? It all has to go.

<pic images/goodwill-entrance.ps There's always something going on at the Goodwill popup station.>

But where to put it? There is no liquid market for used clothing or household items on
eBay, and selling them through local internet forums like Craigslist or a
self-organized <LINK>http://usarundbrief.com/51/p2.html|Garage-Sale"</LINK>
often involves more work than
one willing to put up with. Therefore, it makes sense to drop off items you no longer need at one
of the many places for donations. So-called thrift stores accept donated items
and later sell them for a modest profit in their stores. Depending on the
organization, the proceeds then go to a good cause.

<pic images/goodwill-container.ps Goodwill hires people and pays them with donations in kind.>

Goodwill is one of the most professionally run thrift stores with more than 3,200
branches worldwide. What I particularly like about the store is that it is run
with an iron hand. The employees are on the ball. If you come in with stuff,
someone immediately rushes over, takes it, and the form for tax deduction is
already prepared. You simply write down how much the individual items are still
worth, and that's it. I've never stood at the drop-off at Goodwill for more than five
minutes.

<pic images/goodwill-flyers.ps The strict regulations of the Goodwill store.>

Furthermore, Goodwill pays extreme attention to cleanliness; the stores are
spotless like boutiques, and there are no homeless people hanging around
treating the place like their living room. The fact that Goodwill's leadership
is criticized for high earnings
(<LINK>https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Goodwill_Industries|Wikipedia|Criticism of Bonuses for Goodwill's Executive Team</LINK>) is
laughable, in my opinion; good leadership personnel simply costs money.
Moreover, they don't just throw the proceeds at some aggressive
good-for-nothings who would just run to the next drug dealer, but rather
support projects that reintegrate socially unfortunate individuals to return to
the workforce. This is not a given in San Francisco, where the motto "a lot of
money helps a lot" leads to tax money being aimlessly showered on the homeless,
but things have been going downhill for decades.

However, Goodwill by no means accepts all donations. Old household appliances
like refrigerators or dryers are rejected as they likely take up valuable sales
space, and they also turn away mattresses and large pieces of furniture. I even
had trouble getting rid of a few still good-looking Ikea shelves; I had to
drive around a bit, but eventually, a thrift store in the Mission District took
pity on me and accepted them for free.

<pic images/goodwill-table.ps A well-preserved dining table at Goodwill for a low price.>

Now, retail space in San Francisco is really expensive, and it's next to impossible to
recoup that through sales in a thrift store. However, some commercial buildings also stand
temporarily vacant while their owners look for new tenants, and that's when
Goodwill steps in and sets up a so-called pop-up store, a kind of temporary sales
area that springs up like a pop-up book, with a sales floor separated from
dilapidated building parts only by curtains. For example, a year ago, the
sporting goods store "Sports Authority" on Folsom Street in San Francisco's
SoMa district went bankrupt. It had operated a huge department store, and
suddenly, a Goodwill pop-up moved in, which has been bustling there for half a
year now. We've already donated items there twice. The store is always packed,
and items sell as quickly as they arrive; it's pure joy to watch the hustle and
bustle. We even browsed the small furniture section, saw some beautiful pieces
that almost looked antique, but unfortunately, as I said, there's no space in
our home —- maybe in another life!

@Z: Exchange coins with Coinstar

<pic images/coinstar-screen.ps The Coinstar machine in the supermarket accepts coins and issues vouchers for a fee.>

<em>Michael</em> Like a good American, I now confidently present my credit card
when I buy rolls for $2.50 at the supermarket, even though Angelika later gets
upset when she compares the charge on the credit card statement with a receipt
that is often missing. But hardly anyone pays in cash in the USA, except for
people who can't get a credit card. In <RBLINK>20100725#4</RBLINK>, I've
previously reported on the pointless American small change, and since then not
much has changed.

When paying cash with a bill, I get change back that I never spend again in my life,
because I no longer carry coins with me, only bills in my pocket for absolute
emergencies. Like, if the financial system collapses and in an apocalyptic world
like in the Mad Max movies, only hard currency ensures survival. Therefore, I
immediately deposit received coins in a small designated cup when I get home.
Once a quarter, I empty the cup and put nickels, dimes, and quarters (5, 10,
25-cent pieces) into a Ziplock bag, which I then take to the card game in our
Schafkopf round. I try to offload as many coins as possible to my fellow
players and mainly collect bills. The 1-cent pieces, also called pennies, are
not allowed by my card-playing brothers and sisters, so I collect them in
another Ziplock bag, and when about 500 have accumulated, I take them to the
Coinstar machine at the Safeway supermarket.

<pic images/coinstar-receipt.ps Coinstar takes 12 cents from every dollar in coins for exchanging.>

There, a gigantic machine swallows coins without complaint, counts them with loud
clatter, and then issues vouchers after deducting a 12% fee. What remains can be
redeemed at the supermarket checkout. That's quite a steep fee, but carrying around
all that loose change is really annoying to me. Coins are indispensable as
cash, although one could discuss abolishing cents and rounding up or down to
the nearest 5 cents. Cash itself is not a bad thing as an anonymous means of
payment, but I predict it will soon be abolished anyway, both in Europe and
America. The state is simply too interested in knowing who pays what, when, and
where.

@Z: Large companies ordered to pay for the homeless.

<pic images/sfmental.ps An obviously mentally confused homeless person in the Financial District.>

<em>Michael</em> Visitors from Germany are regularly shocked by the number
of homeless people hanging around in San Francisco. It has become normal for
them to set up tents right in the middle of the sidewalk, forcing regular
pedestrians to walk on the street. And the police don't even come anymore when
someone randomly smashes car windows to rummage inside for something of value;
this has become as much a part of the cityscape as the Cable Car. Recently, we
saw someone in the middle of the city selling a whole stack of vacuum-sealed
meat from the supermarket out of his coat.

<pic images/mission-meat.ps Man sells supermarket meat on the street.>

San Francisco spends $305 million annually on an estimated number of 7,500 homeless
people.  Now, <LINK>https://www.sfchronicle.com/bayarea/heatherknight/article/Businesses-must-contribute-more-to-city-s-13178743.php|Left-liberal voices</LINK> aren't getting tired of
emphasizing that one should by no means do the math and
determine the alarming expenditure of more than $40,000 per homeless person per
year, but rather take into account that the city also uses the money to pay the
rent for people who would otherwise slip into homelessness.

In my opinion, the problem is that those responsible do not have to account for
the fact that the problem gets worse every year. Why do they present higher
homelessness numbers each year despite annual expenditures in the hundreds of millions?
There is simply a lack of uncovering misconduct and holding people accountable,
both the failures in the city administration and the homeless who, despite
offered help, continue to make their living through burglaries.

The topic is, of course, endlessly discussed, and last year someone came up
with the hot idea of throwing even more money at the problem—maybe it will get
better! However, there was nothing in the city coffers, but in recent years,
wealthy internet companies like Salesforce and Twitter have settled in the
downtown area, and they are swimming in money! As always in such cases of
financial shortage, San Francisco lets the citizens decide, and their voting
behavior is 100% predictable when it comes to taking money from wealthy people
or companies, as long as it doesn't cost them anything personally.

Badda-bing-badda-boom, on November 6 (along with the Midterm elections) in San
Francisco, there was a vote on
<LINK>https://ballotpedia.org/San_Francisco,_California,_Proposition_C,_Gross_Receipts_Tax_for_Homelessness_Services_(November_2018)|Prop C|Prop C Referendum</LINK>, and
about 60% of the voters voted 'Yes'.  From now on, companies with over 50 million in annual
revenue must contribute between
0.175% and 0.69% to the homelessness fund, and large companies with over 1
billion in revenue must donate 1.5% of their payroll costs. If you're thinking
'Taxing revenue is madness, why not tax profit?', I completely agree with you.

<pic images/3carts.ps The belongings of homeless people are lying around everywhere.>

This is, however, not yet the end of the story, because as soon as the vote was
over, prompt reactions followed. <LINK>https://www.sfchronicle.com/bayarea/article/SF-puts-brakes-on-Prop-C-homeless-measure-13372179.php|legal concerns regarding Prop C</LINK>
surfaced.
According to California's constitution, tax increases decided by a public vote require a
two-thirds majority. Consequently, a tax association promptly filed a lawsuit
with the California Supreme Court, and now the matter is on hold. The companies
do have to pay the levy, which is supposed to funnel a total of 250 to 300
million dollars into the homelessness fund, but the city is not allowed to
spend any of it until the matter is legally resolved. I wouldn't hold my breath
for that long.

@Z: New job for Angelika

<pic images/school.ps Angelika's new school.>

<em>Angelika</em> After almost twelve years of service at the behavioral
therapy early intervention facility for autistic children, I finally made the
leap and changed jobs at the end of August. After twelve years, you do get into
a bit of a rut. You know your way around, understand how the place operates,
and have a thousand concerns about starting something new because no one can
predict exactly what will come. I'm not exactly a young sprout anymore, and I
also struggle with the fact that no one here really knows my qualifications. I
have a diploma in "Heilpädagogik" from a German "Fachhochschule".
Back in my day, there were no other options,
but studying at a Fachhochschule is often faster than at a University if you don't
count the various internships that students usually have to complete and then the
recognition year. When converting degrees to the American system, however,
usually only the years spent at a university count, and degrees from
Fachhochschulen are often equated with the American bachelor's
degree and are not considered a higher degree, which are called "masters" here.
This is a somewhat skewed assessment because the bachelor's degree in the USA
is more like a combination of the German Abitur and the preliminary diploma.
Thus, an American bachelor's student still has to take general education
courses such as English, math, and history and rarely specializes in a subject. The problem
was that, although I am well-trained by German standards with a lot of
experience, I lack the master's degree by American standards, and the positions
that only require a bachelor's degree here are often subordinate and poorly
paid.

In my field, things are often very bureaucratic. Many institutions receive
government funding. The autism therapy that I provide has been paid by
health insurance companies for some time now. That's when the red tape kicks
in, while in other industries, like the software industry, things are a bit
more relaxed and people with unusual backgrounds or degrees can certainly
catapult themselves into good positions if they have the necessary talent or
knowledge.

But I digress, because I actually wanted to report how and what I landed for a
new job. For quite some time, I had been occasionally checking the portal
craigslist.org for interesting job opportunities. And one Sunday evening, I
found a job listing that seemed tailor-made for me. So, I quickly revised my
resume, added a proper cover letter, and sent the application via email.
The next day, I already received an invitation for an interview, which went
well, and on the same day, the offer was on the table.

So I took the leap and am now working at a private school as a behavioral therapy
specialist in San Mateo, about 20 miles south of San Francisco. The school is
still in its early stages and relatively small, essentially a start-up school.
Currently, there are classes from kindergarten to sixth grade. Some classes are
still combined because the number of students is still relatively small. For
example, we have a third/fourth grade class where the children are taught
together. The children at the school typically have behavioral issues such as
hyperactivity or anxiety disorders; some in my class have autism. The students
at our school are of normal or even above-average intelligence but have often
had significant difficulties in regular schools due to their social behavior.
Our classes are very small, and we have two staff members in each class, with a
primary school teacher and a behavioral therapy specialist always present.

I have a second-grade class together with my colleague, and we currently have
six students. My colleague is responsible for the academic material, and I am
responsible for behavior. I teach an hour every day focused on positive social
behavior, called SEL (Social Emotional Learning), which I enjoy very much. The
children in the class are not easy, and I have already sustained some injuries
because some of my students are also aggressive. But I like the new challenge
and the concept of our school very much, because otherwise the prevailing model
here is that children are assigned an aide as needed to help them manage the
material and integrate into the class.

In this line of work, there are hardly any well-trained candidates here, and
the pay is usually not good either. But our school follows the philosophy of
team teaching, and my colleague and I are on the same level. Since the school
is private, there are fewer government regulations, which in practice means
that we also have more freedom in the classroom. In any case, I am glad that I
had the courage to try something new again!

@Z: New room antenna and SlingTV

<pic images/antenna.ps The modern indoor antenna receives crystal-clear HDTV over the air.>

<em>Michael</em> As is well known, I have long harbored a grudge against the
cable monopolist Comcast, which dominates our region. We canceled our cable
subscription at least ten years ago, and I have no intention of ever supporting
that lousy company again.

<pic images/sling.ps The Sling service provides channels that are not broadcast terrestrially.>

For this reason, we are dealing with Third World internet through the phone
cable (15mbit/1mbit), watching antenna television, and getting movies through
HBONow (via internet), Netflix, and the TV service Sling. The latter costs $25
a month and brings channels like AMC (for series like "Walking Dead") or soccer games
from the World Cup last year to the screen, of course, full of advertisements.

<pic images/tivo.ps The TiVo box records the programmed antenna television.>

For antenna television, until recently, I had a huge antenna with a metal rake,
which is actually meant to be mounted on the house roof, mounted behind the TV set.
However, the reception was quite poor, and the digital recorder
TiVo often only recorded half of Angelika's favorite show "Dancing with the
Stars," which inevitably led to tension in the evening. Then, I recently saw
this new flat antenna at the big supermarket Costco. After some trial and
error, I simply stuck it high up on the wall with gaffer tape, and voilà, the
digital signal from the local antenna channels came in flawlessly -- a huge
improvement. Who would have thought that I would experience this in my old age!

Greetings from the now well-ventilated Bay Area:

Angelika and Michael
