San Francisco, 09-08-2019

@Z: DIY Tire Repair

<pic images/tire-repair-1.ps First, clean out the hole and roughen it up ...>

<em>Michael</em> Somehow, Angelika and I have a special talent for constantly
getting the tires of our cars flat. At least once a year, it happens that some
screw or, recently in Angelika's case, even a part of a rusty old pair of
scissors gets stuck in the tire, causing it to quickly deflate. Even in
Germany, this happened to us two years ago during a visit. The rental car tire
went flat, and we had to drive back to the branch at Munich Airport on the
autobahn with the spare tire on, going 80 km/h. A true highlight of our driving
skills!

The procedure for dealing with flat car tires is already routine for us here in
the US: jack up the car, put on the spare tire, drive to the tire shop, and
get it fixed. However, some American friends told me some time ago that you can
also fix tires yourself here with repair kits that cost around 10 dollars. So,
I preemptively ordered such a patch kit from Amazon and stored it carefully.

A few days ago, it finally happened: The Integra was noticeably tilted in the
garage, and upon closer inspection, it turned out that the air had escaped from
the right rear tire. A wood screw was deeply embedded in the tread, and I
thought to myself: I'll try fixing this myself now.

<pic images/tire-repair-2.ps ... then apply the adhesive tape ...>

The patch kit was held in a bright orange plastic box and contained two
martial-looking corkscrew-like tools, along with about 40 pieces of what I call
adhesive worms. These are brightly orange cotton cords, about 4 inches long and 1/4
inch thick, heavily coated with a very sticky adhesive. To repair the
tire, you first remove the sharp object that caused the mishap, then you use
the first corkscrew to pierce a hole and then roughen it with vigorous
up-and-down movements, as the tool shaft has a fine grooved texture, like a file.

Then the repairman takes one of the 40 adhesive worms from the pack and
symmetrically threads it into the second corkscrew, which has an eyelet at the
bottom that opens up like a spring when pressure is applied downward. The tire
repairman now folds the adhesive worm in the middle and forcefully stuffs it
into the hole using the corkscrew, but not all the way to the end. Instead, he
leaves about an inch of both sides of the adhesive-soaked cord sticking out
at the top. Then he slowly and carefully pulls the corkscrew out upwards. As he
does this, the eyelet of the corkscrew inside the tire opens up and releases
the worm. The hole is thus plugged, and the resulting protrusion of the worm
ends on the tire surface can either be trimmed with scissors or left as is to
be smoothed out by tire wear during driving. Through the chemical miracle of
vulcanization, the hole and the worm fuse into an airtight plug, and the tire
is now airtight and repaired.

<pic images/tire-repair-3.ps ... and stuff it into the hole.>

However, this method should only be used if the hole in the tire is not at the
tire edge, because otherwise it could weaken the tire structure and lead to
unsightly burst tires. Additionally, you can't accelerate to highway speeds
with a patched tire, but in America, the speed limit is 75 mph max anyway. So
far, the plug has held up well, and I still have 39 spare plugs left, so I'm ready
for the next flat tire.

@Z: Summer Vacation

<pic images/calli-paper.ps In a calligraphy course, Angelika learned how to write beautifully.>

<em>Angelika</em> From our school days, everyone surely remembers the uplifting
feeling of upcoming summer holidays. When all the exams were done and six long
weeks of doing nothing and letting oneself drift lay ahead. As an adult, one
rarely gets to enjoy this anymore. Semester breaks in college were not bad
either, but for me, they were always filled with mandatory internships. But
this summer, after decades, I finally had a long summer break again because I
now work at a school, and even in the US, there are generous summer breaks or,
more precisely, a stretch of time without classes. At our school, we had a
whopping nine weeks off. It was wonderful. Just like in school days, there was
nothing better for me than to read and immerse myself in the world of books. I
had planned on reading a book every week during my time off, and I actually
managed to do that. I read a colorful assortment of crime novels, non-fiction
books, technical books, and, of course, novels.

<pic images/calli-letter.ps The art of beautiful handwriting is a science in itself.>

Then I fulfilled my dream of attending a calligraphy course. I belong to a
generation for whom learning cursive writing was a top priority in school.
Unfortunately, this cultural technique is threatened with extinction, as it is
believed that in the digital world, typing and print writing take precedence
over cursive writing. In the US, many students no longer learn cursive because
it has been removed from the curriculum. However, there is hope, as cursive
writing is currently experiencing something of a comeback in schools here,
since it has been found that it is not just about beautiful handwriting.
Learning cursive not only helps with fine motor skills but also enhances memory
and improves text comprehension. Students who write in cursive construct better
texts than when they type them.

But I digress. My strict but fair elementary school teacher, Mrs. Hibben, not
only ensured that we wrote all the loops, ascenders, and descenders in the
correct order, but also insisted on good penmanship. In high school, my class
teacher, Mr. Senst, was so impressed with my handwriting that he advised me to
pursue a career in calligraphy. It's hard to believe that it took me decades to
finally enroll in a course. I took this course as another class
at the "Center for the Book" in San Francisco (<RBLINK>20070427#11</RBLINK>). 

<pic images/calli-pen.ps Special pen for calligraphy.>

My writing attempts in the course strongly reminded me of my elementary school
days. We learned the Ronde script, which originated in 16th century France and
is relatively easy for beginners to learn. What fascinated me is that
calligraphy is truly a science in itself. The type of script defines the letter
size and the angle at which the writing tool must be held. Then there are all
sorts of rules on how to connect the letters and, of course, a huge selection
of different writing instruments, from fountain pens to nibs, to calligraphy
pens with different nib widths. I particularly liked the so-called parallel
pen, whose nib is not pointed at the front but broad, and which comes in
different nib widths. In any case, the course was a lot of fun, and now it's
clear that practice makes perfect.

Of course, I also used my summer vacation to complete various projects that I
never have time for otherwise, and to visit family and friends. And just like
that, the nine weeks were over, and the seriousness of life resumed.

@Z: Key Duplication Machine

<pic images/key-cutter.ps The machine takes the old key and carves a new one.>

<em>Michael</em> Recently, while visiting the grocery chain Trader Joe's, I
remembered that I also wanted to get a duplicate of our apartment key made, and
a sign in front of the adjacent store "Bed, Bath, and Beyond" indicated that
this service was offered inside. I expected to find a cobbler in a small booth near
the exit behind the registers who also offered key services, but instead, I saw
-- a machine.

An old lady was just standing in front of it, the machine was humming busily and spat
out a newly cut key into the output slot. She took it, exclaimed "nifty!" and
toddled off. So I read the instructions on the touchscreen and followed the
prompts to insert the key to be copied into a keyhole-like slot on the front of
the machine, select the type of key (door key or car key), and pay the required
$7.49 plus tax by credit card. Until now, I thought making a duplicate key only
cost a few dollars, but apparently, the price for this service, like everything
else here in the Bay Area (despite the government claiming barely noticeable
inflation!), has tripled over the last 20 years. Oh well!

My email address was also requested by the machine, and it promised not to
store my credit card information, otherwise a villain might find out which
address the key fits into the lock. It also asked if I wanted to leave my
fingerprint so it could store the key under it (what?), but I politely
declined. The machine then started to rattle dangerously inside, and after
about a minute, a newly carved golden door key fell into the output tray. I
removed the old key and simply left the store with the duplicate, as the
receipt was sent to me via email. The key was a bit sharp-edged, but it fit
perfectly into the lock at home. Incredible, what these whippersnappers come up
with these days! Such a machine would probably do well in Germany with its
immense labor costs. However, Germans prefer significantly more complicated
locks than Americans, who favor cheap good-enough solutions. But who knows,
maybe something like this already exists over there!

@Z: Trends: Driving old Hondas

<pic images/integra-1.ps An old Acura Integra (not ours) in the Hayes Valley neighborhood.>

<em>Michael</em> As a German expatriate, I often find myself in the absurd
situation of having to explain to Americans that I do not see German vehicles
as the be-all and end-all of the international automotive industry. When a
sports car enthusiast colleague buys a BMW or Porsche, I can't help but think
to myself: You fool! Why do you spend so much money on unnecessarily
complicated frills that are also so hopelessly unreliable that the car spends
more time in the workshop than thundering down the highway? I also hear horror
stories from colleagues about overburdened Californian mechanics having to call
Sindelfingen or Munich because completely trivial things break down, which then
can only be fixed with special tools ordered straight from Mars, and which
broke in the first place because they were developed by completely incompetent
German engineers who seem to have lost the skill of designing reliable components.

I would also never buy a Tesla, simply because I need a car for driving, not a
toy, I need a car that still runs even when there's no electricity available. But it's
entertaining to watch how Tesla is giving German car manufacturers a run for
their money because they aren't afraid to question everything that has existed
so far and do things radically different, so much so that Tesla drivers rub
their eyes in amazement and wonder why no one thought of this before.

Besides, what continues to deter me from buying new cars is the fact that car
salespeople nowadays hardly make any profit from selling a vehicle. Instead,
they speculate that the customer will constantly bring the car in for some
costly "inspections," during which the dealer then "preventively" replaces
perfectly functioning parts. Completely insane! These maintenance tasks, which
the onboard computer demands every ten thousand miles, are utter nonsense and a
money-making scheme. I know from car-loving colleagues that car dealers now
charge extra if the buyer does not live in the nearby area. After all, they
don't make any money from pointless inspections if the buyer is likely to have
them done in their hometown.

For those who are interested: The maintenance cycle for our two cars looks like
this: Oil is changed approximately every 5,000 miles, at the cheapest oil
change provider for about 60 dollars. Otherwise, nothing is done unless
something starts to rattle, squeak, or leak. Then I either fix it myself by
purchasing the necessary replacement part from Amazon or an auto parts
supplier, or, if the repair is beyond my knowledge, I take it to a Chinese
mechanic in the Outer Mission neighborhood, whom I know to be reliable and
honest. For a few hundred dollars, the man goes above and beyond.

<pic images/rakete-dash.ps (#2) Our 21-year-old Integra now has 194,000 miles (312,000 kilometers) on it.>

With our aging 1998 Acura Integra, which at 21 years old will probably soon end
up in the car graveyard, similar to its predecessor, a 1991 Integra, I find
that interested buyers are mainly in the "Fast and Furious" bracket.
Anyone who takes a look at the tachometer in figure (#2) might notice that the
red zone doesn't start until 8000 RPM. That's all I'm going to say about this. On
YouTube, you can watch Brazilian race car driver
<LINK>https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8By2AEsGAhU|Ayrton Senna|Ayrton Senna races with an Acura NSX</LINK>, who tragically died in 1994, drive an Acura NSX between seven and
eight thousand RPMs around a racetrack, wearing moccasins and white socks.

In San Francisco, these young car enthusiasts are called "Rice Boys,"
mostly Asian youths who race souped-up Hondas or Toyotas in so-called
"sideshows" on deserted supermarket parking lots at night. Just like in the
first part of the movie
<LINK>https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Fast_and_the_Furious|The Fast and the Furious</LINK>
in which, in the first street racing scene, a certain "Edwin"
drives an Integra.

Unsurprisingly, these models are stolen like hotcakes, and for this reason, I
recently personally installed a so-called "kill switch." This is a switch in a
top-secret location that must be flipped for the fuel pump to start.
Otherwise, the engine cranks endlessly and won't start even with a hot-wired
ignition, causing thieves to get nervous, pull their hair out, and look for
other targets.

@Z: Polamarin Hiking Trail in Point Reyes

<pic images/point-reyes.ps Two hikers on the Polamarin Trail in Point Reyes>

<em>Angelika</em> We love hiking, and one of our favorite nature reserves,
which is just about an hour's drive north of San Francisco, is Point Reyes
(<RBLINK>20060421#11</RBLINK>). We drive up there regularly since we discovered it in
1994 during one of our West Coast trips. Since we now live in San Francisco, it is
practically on our doorstep. Point Reyes has become increasingly popular and is
unfortunately no longer a hidden gem. Even just 10 years ago, people would
often ask in surprise where Point Reyes even was when we mentioned that we were
going there. Nowadays, Point Reyes is especially popular with day-trippers from
San Francisco and the Bay Area because it is easy to reach and offers beautiful
hiking trails of varying difficulties and lengths.

Despite its staggering popularity, there are still ways to find paths that are
not overcrowded. However, on the weekend when we visited Point Reyes once
again, we made the mistake of taking a hiking trail that leads to a waterfall
that cascades onto the beach. This is undoubtedly a unique natural spectacle,
but we didn't actually want to go to the waterfall; we just wanted to go to
Bass Lake, which is along the way.

We had walked this path many years ago, and this weekend we were feeling a bit
sentimental and wanted to enjoy the hiking trail with its spectacular views of
the Pacific Ocean once again. The fact that we had to park a mile away just to
get to the trailhead should have given us pause. There were no parking spaces
left at the official parking lot. Another clue was that Point Reyes staff were
already directing traffic and assigning parking spots to drivers. However, this
initially didn't deter us, as parking spaces at hiking trails are often limited
and the crowds usually disperse quickly. Unfortunately, this time we were
proven wrong, as it remained crowded and the stream of hikers from both
directions did not let up.

We felt like we were in Disneyland. Shockingly, every third group of hikers was
blasting music from their phones, not through headphones so that the rest of
the world wouldn't have to listen. No, it echoed through the speakers into
nature, which sounds totally tinny when you use a phone for that. I really
thought I was in the wrong movie because, in all the many hikes we've done so
far, we had never encountered this phenomenon before. I really enjoy listening
to music, but everything in its own time. I don't need to be bombarded with
sound when I'm moving through nature.

I was so confused by the experience that I did a bit of research, and indeed,
the internet was full of complaints that this bad habit of playing loud music
on hiking trails is spreading more and more. In fact, the first signs have
already appeared in popular hiking areas asking people to refrain from doing
so. It's sad that special signs are needed for this. The next day, we chose a
less popular hiking trail and, lo and behold, apart from the sound of the
ocean, the chirping of birds, and the rustling in the underbrush as a snake
slithered away, as well as the footsteps of a few other hikers, we had the
trail all to ourselves in complete silence.

@Z: Crosstown Trail: On Foot Across San Francisco

<pic images/crosstown-trail-mike.ps Michael on a secret staircase between residential houses in the upscale neighborhood of Forrest Hill.>

<em>Michael</em> We have been living in San Francisco for the past 22 years,
and during that time, we have always been on the lookout for secluded
neighborhoods that no tourist has yet discovered. Apparently, there are more
people like us, because a few months ago, the "Crosstown Trail Coalition," a
committee of hiking enthusiasts, published the description of
the <LINK>http://crosstowntrail.org/map|San Francisco Crosstown Trails"|"San Francisco Crosstown Trail</LINK>,
a 20 mile long footpath through the city that
passes by little-known attractions, even by local standards.

<pic images/crosstown-map.ps The second part of the Crosstown Trail goes through the upscale neighborhood of Forrest Hill.>

It begins at Candlestick Park in the far southeast of the city, winds his way
through the somewhat more rustic neighborhoods of Bayview and Visitation Valley
up to Bernal Heights, the home of our hippie millionaires. From there, hikers
then trek through the middle class Glen Park and the affluent neighborhood of Forest
Hill, to then pass through the Chinese Sunset District, to Golden Gate Park, and
subsequently through the Presidio Park to the "Lands End" viewpoint at the far
northwest of the city, to reach the ocean.

<pic images/little-hollywood.ps The district "Little Hollywood" is quite unknown, even to locals.>
<pic images/crosstown-angelika.ps Angelika on a secret staircase in the upscale neighborhood of Forrest Hill.>

In doing so, the city explorer wanders through "Old Money" neighborhoods like
Forrest Hill, where old mansions with a good 20 rooms stand on properties with
generous driveways, and a Rolls Royce is parked out front. The path also leads
over a no less than 30-feet-wide staircases between residential houses, but no
one climbs the stairs because in this hilly area, no one walks. These
staircases probably date back to times when city planners thought that within
50 years, a crazy hustle and bustle would ensue in Forest Hill, but instead, the
area developed into a sleepy residential neighborhood for the super-rich.

<pic images/crosstown-view.ps Views of the Sunset District from Grandview Park.>

Although these stairs often look like they belong to adjacent private
residences, they are all public and curious individuals are allowed to use them
as they please. They often connect rows of houses in hilly areas where city
planners could not construct a direct connecting road due to the steepness of
the slopes. The Crosstown Trail is designed to cover as many of these hidden
stairs as possible, it seems to me.

<pic images/crosstown-tree-monkey.ps Local specimen of the tree monkey species in Grandview Park.>

The path offers beautiful views continuously, but of course, only if everything
isn't fogged up again, which in San Francisco northwest of Twin Peaks is often
hit or miss. As always, it is advisable to bring a warm jacket, just in
case, because tourists frozen into icicles are repeatedly found along the way.
We walked the Crosstown Trail in stages, and either took public transportation
to the starting points or parked the car there and took an Uber back to the car
after the stage.

<pic images/crosstown-dead-end.ps Dead end at the edge, in the Sunset district.>

Since there are no signs to outline the path, the hiker either uses
the trail's <LINK>https://www.outerspatial.com|smartphone app|Crosstown Trail App</LINK>
or prints out so-called cue sheets, which
indicate at which street intersections to turn left or right, to follow the
route. Nowadays, the Crosstown Trail is very popular, so you often see people
sneaking through tiny residential streets with printed sheets of paper in hand,
nodding knowingly when they see that you are also reading from a sheet of paper
while walking.

@Z: Electoral College

<pic images/electoral-college.ps In the chaos of the 2016 presidential election, it went completely unnoticed that, for example, an elector from Hawaii did not vote for the candidate chosen by the voters (Source: Wikipedia).>

<em>Angelika</em> We are in the middle of another election campaign. In 2015, when
Trump appeared on the political stage, I still thought it was completely
unthinkable that Donald Trump would ever become President of the United States.
Four years later, I have to say that I fear we will probably have to brace
ourselves for another term. I hope that I will be wrong again this time. Many
Democratic voters are particularly frustrated with the American system of
electors, because in two past elections (Bush vs. Gore and Trump vs. Clinton,
see also <RBLINK>20001204#1</RBLINK>), in each case, a president made it to the
White House even though the opposing candidate received more total votes from
voters. Hillary Clinton received over 3 million more votes nationwide
than Donald Trump, and yet Trump won. In America, it is not the direct votes of
the population that count, but the electoral votes from the individual states.

Although populous states like California and Florida have more electors than
sparsely populated ones, the number is determined by how many representatives
the state has in the House of Representatives plus the Senate. Every state,
regardless of size, sends 2 senators to the Senate, but based on population, a
different number of representatives to the House of Representatives.

California, based on the last census in 2010, has exactly 53 representatives
plus 2 senators, which results in California having 55 electors who vote for
the president. Due to the knockout system applied in almost all states, the
winner in each state receives all the electoral votes, even if the candidate
wins by a narrow margin. This can lead to the described imbalance, where a
candidate may receive the majority of votes nationwide but still not win. Many
consider this undemocratic because ultimately not every voter's voice is
considered. Furthermore, it leads to low voter turnout, as in states that
always go to the candidate of the same party, the opposing side often doesn't
bother to go to the polls because their vote changes nothing and is
disregarded. This system also strengthens the electoral influence of states
with lower population density, which in the U.S. are usually the more rural
states that traditionally tend to give their votes to Republican candidates.

The Founding Fathers introduced the Electoral College as a compromise because
many at the time were uneasy with the idea of the people directly electing the
President and Vice President. However, they also did not want to transfer this
responsibility to Congress, leading to the compromise of the Electoral College,
established in "Article II, Section 1" of the American Constitution. Due to its
entrenchment in the Constitution, it is not easy to get rid of the Electoral
College system, as it requires a two-thirds majority in Congress.

This unusual
election procedure leads to some absurdities in the campaign, such as
politicians focussing on states that sometimes vote for the Republican
candidate and other times for the Democratic candidate, the so-called "swing
states." For example, since California has consistently voted for the
Democratic candidate since 1992, no Republican candidate really campaigns there
anymore.

The knockout system, in which all electoral votes go to the winner in the
respective state, is not actually prescribed by the Constitution, and the
states have a lot of leeway in this regard. Other models are and would be
possible, such as a proportional distribution or a division based on the
majority per electoral district, which is already done in the states of Nevada
and Maine. Another initiative, according to which the electors give their vote
to the candidate who receives the most votes on a national level, regardless of
whether they won in their state or not, is currently being
discussed as <LINK>https://www.nationalpopularvote.com|National Popular Vote
Interstate Compact</LINK>. Already, 16 states have committed or
even passed corresponding laws in their respective parliaments to follow this
procedure. Ultimately, this is an agreement between the states and an
introduction of direct election through the back door, without having to amend
the Constitution. However, for the whole thing to work at all, at least enough
states would have to join the pact to reach the required majority of 270
electors. Currently, the states that have joined the pact only account for 196
electors. However, legal experts are debating whether these agreements might be
unconstitutional or if approval from Congress would be needed to put the whole
plan into action.

Another interesting fact is that nowhere in the Constitution does it state that
electors must necessarily cast their vote for the candidate they were appointed
to by the state. Theoretically, they can change their commitment and vote
according to their conscience. However, individual states try to prevent this
by selecting reliable and loyal electors or by imposing fines on those who
deviate. A court of appeals in Denver, consisting of three judges, confirmed on
August 20 that the respective states cannot force their electors to vote for a
specific candidate. Many legal experts suspect that this question will
ultimately be decided by the Supreme Court. Deviators are rather rare,
but in the 2016 presidential elections, these so-called "Faithless Electors"
caused a Democratic elector in Hawaii to vote for Bernie Sanders instead of
Hillary Clinton, even though Sanders had already been eliminated in the
primaries.

In the next newsletter, I will try to explain why I believe that Donald Trump will succeed again.

@Z: Top product: J-B Weld

<pic images/j-b-weld.ps The two tubes of J-B Weld epoxy adhesive.>

<em>Michael</em> In our household, things somehow keep breaking, but instead of
replacing them with new ones, I often repair them with the help of my extensive
tool collection. Recently, the bathroom fan stopped working. A new one costs
only 15 dollars at the hardware store, but it was a lot of fun to take apart
the electric motor, find the dirty axle, clean and lubricate it, reassemble the
fan, and see that it now runs smoothly again. The knowledge gained from such a
repair, as well as the excitement of whether you can even put the device back
together, is priceless.

<pic images/fan-disassembled.ps Michael disassembled the broken bathroom fan.>

Often, when working on such tasks, it is necessary to glue broken plastic or
metal parts back together. I don't know why, but somehow I seem to be at odds
with superglues, as I have yet to find one that permanently sticks anything
together. In the advertisements, it always looks so easy, but in reality, such
a superglue at best permanently sticks to the repairer's fingers, while
glued plastic parts bend like modeling clay under the subsequent application of force,
and then come apart.

<pic images/j-b-weld-mix.ps When mixed, the black resin and the white hardener form a gray mass that slowly hardens.>

An American acquaintance gave me the tip to try the epoxy miracle adhesive "J-B
Weld," which comes in two tubes. One contains a black paste called "Steel"
(actually a resin), and the other a white goo called "Hardener." If you squeeze
a small amount from both tubes onto a surface and mix them with a spatula, you
get a gray paste that slowly hardens. It remains moldable for four to six
hours, giving the repairer enough time to bond parts made of metal, PVC,
ceramic, or wood. Within 15 hours, the paste fully hardens and bonds with the
adjacent materials, creating something akin to a welded connection. I used it
to firmly reattach the broken plastic tab from a folding crate, without which
it wouldn't close properly (see Figure #1).

<pic images/jb-weld-crate-fixed.ps (#1) The broken plastic nose of the folding box was perfectly reattached with J-B Weld.>

According to <LINK>https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/J-B_Weld|Wikipedia|J-B Weld on Wikipedia</LINK>, the miracle paste was invented in 1968 by an American hobbyist,
at the urging of his wife, turned it into a small business. The life dream of
the company founder, who "suddenly" passed away in 1989, was allegedly to see
an 18-wheeler truck on the roads of America loaded with nothing but J-B Weld.
This American dream has come true, without a doubt.

Greetings!

Angelika and Michael
