San Francisco, 12-24-2019

@Z: Christmas 2019

<pic images/xmas-2019.ps Christmas 2019>

<em>Angelika</em> The Christmas tree has been bought and is waiting on the
balcony for its big appearance on December 24th. The last workday is done, and
now I have 2 weeks of Christmas vacation: it's time for the Christmas
newsletter.

Christmas traditionally represents a time of giving, which is also evident in
the increased number of letters we receive around this time of year asking for
end-of-year donations. In the USA, many organizations cannot survive without
donations because the government often plays a minor role in funding social and
cultural projects. For my Christmas newsletter, I would like to introduce you
to two increasingly popular trends that are not necessarily limited to the USA
but are still considered quintessentially American: the rise of private museums
built to showcase the art collections of private individuals to the public, and
the so-called "Service Learning," which is also being attempted in a limited
way at the school where I work.

First, let's talk about museums. Over Thanksgiving, we both had a week off
and spent it in Los Angeles, specifically in Venice Beach. Since we always try
to discover something new, this time we visited the private
museum <LINK>https://www.thebroad.org|The Broad</LINK> in Downtown Los Angeles</LINK>.
The museum cost 140 million dollars to build, for the specific purpose of
of showcasing the
private art collection of Eli and Edythe Broad. It opened in the fall of 2015
and displays modern artworks that the couple has acquired over decades, as
well as various additional exhibitions.

The building is architecturally interesting, modern, and imposing. Eli Broad
searched for a long time for a suitable place in Los Angeles to display his
collection and then decided to erect a new building in Downtown. Downtown L.A. is
experiencing something of a renaissance, partly due to institutions like "The
Broad," after the city center had long languished with many vacant buildings.
Eli Broad became a multi-billionaire by initially making a fortune in Detroit
through building and selling houses. However, that was not enough for him, and
he then moved into the insurance industry, where he was very successful a
second time with his company Sun America. His wife Edythe has been and still is
the driving force behind acquiring art. The couple (both now well over 80 years
old) is now fully dedicated to philanthropy. They are part of the group of
billionaires (The Giving Pledge) who have committed to donating at least half
of their wealth.  Melinda and Bill Gates, Warren Buffet, Mark Zuckerberg, and
his wife are also part of this group.

But back to the Broad Museum. The museum owns 2,000 artworks, including pieces
by Joseph Beuys, Andy Warhol, Jeff Koons, Yayoi Kusama, and Roy Lichtenstein.
Admission is free, but visitors must pay for special exhibitions. You can
pre-order tickets for a specific time of day online, so you don't have to line up with
spontaneous visitors. Otherwise, the wait time can be up to 2 hours.

The museum is very popular. As mentioned, "The Broad" is just one of many
museums in the USA that is not only privately owned but also exclusively
showcases a private collection. In general, I find it commendable when artworks
do not disappear into private villas but can be enjoyed by a broad public.
However, there are also critical voices that argue that private collections
often display a hodgepodge of works that reflect the owner's taste but do not
necessarily follow curatorial or art historical criteria. In any case, we were
thrilled to examine original works that we had previously only known as
reproductions.

In the USA, it is relatively common for students to engage in volunteer work.
This often has pragmatic reasons, as good grades alone are not always enough to
get into a good college; personal social engagement also counts. Many schools
have now adopted the concept of "Service Learning" (roughly translated as
"learning through social engagement"). The idea is to provide students with
experiences through social engagement to strengthen their social skills.
Ideally, students get involved in their own neighborhood or the school's
neighborhood. This could involve, for example, helping out in the clothing room
of a charitable organization, cleaning up the local playground, or
familiarizing seniors in a retirement home with new technologies. 

In Service Learning, students are not simply sent off on their own; they are
prepared for it in class. Goals are set, and the experiences and lessons
learned are reflected upon. The new vice-principal at my school is an
enthusiastic supporter of this educational method. However, since our students
are still relatively young, it is often not easy to find suitable projects, as
many require a minimum age for students to volunteer. So, we are starting small
at our school. Before the Christmas holidays, we collected winter jackets
because one of our staff members volunteers with the homeless. The idea was for
the children to either donate a jacket in good condition from home or buy one
from a second-hand store with their saved-up pocket money. In class, we talked
several times with the children about the how, why, and wherefore. As
mentioned, this is still in its early stages for us, but a start has been made.

In this spirit, we wish you all a Merry Christmas and a satisfying year 2020.

Angelika and Michael
