San Francisco, 05-19-2020

@Z: Haircuts At Home With Flowbee

<pic images/haircut-flowbee.ps The Flowbee accurately trims the longer hair on the top of the head to the same length.>

<em>Michael</em> It will probably be a while before our strict governor lets us
go to the hairdresser again, but our hair is unimpressed by this and continues
to grow like crazy. My last visit to the hairdresser was over three months ago,
and I usually go to my regular barber once a month, so quick action was needed.
I inquired at work about solutions, and the jokers there recommended the
so-called "Flowbee," a system from the last century that every middle-aged
American probably knows from the TV commercials of their youth.

<pic images/flowbee-box.ps The Flowbee device. Not exactly cheap, but a classic.>

It is a cutting device at the end of a long hose that you connect to a vacuum
cleaner. The vacuum cleaner sucks on the hair through the hose, and the cutting
mechanism trims the ends all to the same length. The exorbitant price of $145 only
deterred me briefly, but then I thought to myself, I absolutely have to include
this in the newsletter, and clicked the "Buy" button. At the same time, I
ordered a professional hair clipper, the "Wahl Pilot Clipper #8483," and after
watching some YouTube videos, I was confident that I could trim my hair neatly.

<pic images/haircut-clipper.ps Michael trims the sides with a professional hair clipper.>

First, I trimmed the sides with the trimmer as described in the YouTube videos,
but I had trouble coordinating the movements of a pair of scissors in the
mirror when it came to the top hair on the crown, which needs to be left
longer; otherwise, it looks impossible and like a mullet. Quickly, I grabbed
the Flowbee, selected an attachment about 2.5 cm long, turned on the vacuum
cleaner and the Flowbee cutting device, and tapped it all over the top of my
head. In no time, the Flowbee sucked in the hair with each contact and cut it
precisely to the same length. It was so effortless, I barely noticed that
anything was being cut at all. There's no mess either, because the vacuum
cleaner immediately sucks up all the cut hair. Top product!

<pic images/flowbee-suck-cut.ps The 1992 movie "Wayne's World" featured a Flowbee clone.>

Newsletter reader Conny has pointed out to us, by the way, that a clone of the
Flowbee device already appeared in the 1992
film <LINK>https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7LrJDt-fPQI|Wayne's World</LINK>.
It appeared as a parody of the Flowbee system, which was apparently being heavily
advertised on American television at the time. In a funny scene, Garth gets an
obviously painful haircut from an industry representative. However, the real
Flowbee is actually very gentle; as mentioned, you don't even notice that
anything is happening, but afterward, the hair is definitely shorter than
before and all exactly the same length.

<pic images/haircut-finish.ps (#1) No difference in Michael's cowlick hairstyle between Flowbee and professional barber haircut.>

The result, after about half an hour of work with both devices, is quite
impressive, I think (see Figure (#1)). When I come home from the hairdresser, I
look somewhat similar, as my hair tends to be a bit unruly. Following this
initial success, I also trimmed Angelika's short haircut with the trimmer and
even gave her the professional coloring she had ordered from her regular
hairdresser via contactless delivery. Although it was a tough job that took
over an hour, the result was really satisfactory (see Figure (#2)). Conclusion:
Professional service workers also put their pants on one leg at a time. With
some practice, amateurs can achieve similar results.

<pic images/haircut-angelika.ps (#2) Angelika got a haircut with coloring from the house hairdresser.>

@Z: Evening City Hikes

<pic images/walk-noe.ps Evening walk over the steps of Cesar Chavez Street in the upper part of Noe Valley.>

<em>Angelika</em> How many times have we thought, while vacationing in some
beautiful city, that we could stay there for a year and still not see
everything? We felt that way in Tokyo back then, and of course in New York as
well. Until now, we actually thought we knew San Francisco like the back of our
hand, since we've been living here for over 20 years and we don't just sit on
the couch on weekends, but often set out to explore our city. However, you
surely know that such a habit often draws you back to your favorite spots.
Certain areas are also actively avoided by locals in San Francisco because they
are so overrun by tourists that you can't set foot in there during normal times.

<pic images/twin-peaks.ps The tourist platform on Twin Peaks is closed to car traffic and completely deserted.>

However, everything is different at the moment because the coronavirus pandemic
and travel restrictions have driven tourists away from the cityscape. Thus, on
our daily evening walks, we are rediscovering corners where we would normally
leave to the tourists. Recently, we strolled in the soft evening light around
the exterior grounds of the venerable "Palace of Fine Arts" building, which was
constructed in 1915 for the Panama-Pacific Exposition, and we had the building
almost to ourselves. On another evening, we hiked through the Presidio Park to
Marshall's Beach, over many hidden wooden stairs in the dune and cliff
landscape. We were rewarded with a fantastic view of the Golden Gate Bridge and
the Pacific Ocean, as Marshall's Beach is located in close proximity to the
bridge.

<pic images/marshall-beach.ps Michael is tapping away on his phone at Marshall's Beach despite the phenomenal view.>

Since San Francisco is very hilly and surrounded by water, there are always
those moments of breathtaking beauty when the city lies at your feet from high
above. The sky is often so blue these days, as if a child had painted it in a
picture book. This is, of course, also due to the reduced air pollution from
fewer cars and airplanes. We are falling in love with our city all over again,
as extremely high rents and living costs, dirty and crowded streets, and
construction sins had somewhat tarnished our old love.

<pic images/muni-track.ps With reckless courage, Angelika strides along the track of the Muni streetcar, which is closed to pedestrians.>

It is truly amazing how far one can travel on foot. The book "Stairway Walks in
San Francisco" particularly helps us discover new corners again and again. It
describes routes in San Francisco that incorporate all kinds of stairways. Due
to the hills, San Francisco has many such connections. Often, you can't go any
further by car, but stairs lead pedestrians from top to bottom or vice versa.
San Francisco counts over 600 such stairways. There are large, long stairs,
open and hidden ones. The hidden ones are often surrounded by beautiful,
enchanted gardens.

<pic images/wharf-store.ps Michael in front of the abandoned souvenir shop at Fisherman's Wharf.>

The book "Stairway Walks in San Francisco", written by Adah Bakalinsky, has
actually been known to us since our early years in San Francisco. When we moved
here, we took one or two routes from the book, often with visitors in tow. In
the meantime, the book has been revised and supplemented several times with the
support of Adah's friend Mary Burk. We are now close to having walked all the
described routes at least once. But we can also proudly say that for almost 10
weeks now, since San Francisco has been in a state of emergency, we have gone
out every evening after work (with only three exceptions).

<pic images/ocean-beach.ps The city beach "Ocean Beach" offers enough space for walkers to maintain distance.>

In addition to the stairways, we are always drawn to "Ocean Beach" right within
city limits. Unlike other beaches in the surrounding area, our mayor had mercy
and did not close off the beach. The parking lots directly at the beach are
closed, supposedly to curb the influx of beachgoers from outside, but we always
find a parking spot in the side streets. Also, the Great Highway, which runs
parallel to the beach, is partially closed, allowing cyclists and pedestrians
to use this section of the road undisturbed. The beach is very wide, especially
at low tide, so walkers don't get in each other's way. Since it is usually not
warm enough for sunbathing and the water is too cold for swimming in the waves,
we never see scenes of sunbathers lying close together on their beach towels at
Ocean Beach. For me, there is nothing more relaxing than letting the wind blow
around my ears and inhaling the salty air during a beach walk. The best therapy
against the strains of the pandemic.

@Z: Standing in Line for Groceries

<pic images/whole-foods.ps How long is the line in front of a supermarket right now?>

<em>Michael</em> The waiting in front of grocery stores is the most
nerve-wracking aspect of the crisis. It's not uncommon to see 20 or 30 people
standing in front of the store door, all spaced 6 feet (and often more) apart
from each other, with the line stretching around the next street corner. In
front of some stores, you can even see two separate lines extending in
different directions: one for regular shoppers and one for so-called
"Instacarters".

<pic images/storequeue.ps A website that shows how long the lines are at nearby grocery stores.>

The latter are drudges of the company "Instacart," who shop for people who
select groceries online using the "Instacart" app and then have them delivered
to their door. The actual shopping is done by low-wage workers who run around
the store recklessly, stare at their smartphones, and have no idea which shelf
the requested products are on. After customer complaints, the stores assigned
the Instacarters their own queue, and when a customer left the store, one
person from alternating queues was allowed to enter. Then some stores limited
the number of Instacarters in the store, and only when an Instacarter left the
store was a new one from the Instacarter queue allowed in; otherwise, only
regular customers were let in.

<pic images/storequeue-fix.ps Thumbs down: Everyone is allowed to correct the actual waiting time.>

Now it is incredibly annoying to drive to a store only to see that the line is
hopelessly long again, so some tech-savvy individuals set out to create a
website as a remedy. In the
<LINK>Storequeue app|https://storequeue.com|Storequeue.com</LINK>,
customers themselves can report how long the waiting time in front of a
specific store actually is. The website displays all known grocery stores
within an adjustable radius and the most recently reported waiting time. If you
are standing in front of a store and the waiting time is accurate, you can
report this by tapping the "Like" symbol. If it is not accurate, you can give a
"Thumbs down" and enter how long you actually waited.

The whole thing only works, of course, if many people participate. It seems
to be working well because recently, around noon, I saw that according to
Storequeue, the waiting time in front of our otherwise totally overcrowded
Trader Joe's was only 10 minutes. I immediately ran downstairs, got in the car,
and drove there. I could hardly believe it, but there were really only three
people in front of the entrance, and within five minutes I was inside. Out of
shock, I made a few panic buys. I'm loving this top product!

@Z: Dough from the telephone pole

<pic images/sourdough-starter-pole.ps Someone has attached sourdough cultures to a telephone pole so that neighbors can bake bread.>

<em>Angelika</em> Flour and yeast are still scarce in the supermarkets here.
Apparently, a large portion of the population has discovered home baking. Bread
baking, in particular, seems to be very trendy right now. Amusingly, during one
of our evening walks around the city, we discovered some dough remnants sealed
in plastic bags, which someone had nailed to a telephone pole along with
instructions. Upon closer inspection, it turned out to be a sourdough starter
for bread baking. According to the instructions, it needed to be fed every day
with a quarter cup of flour and 2 tablespoons of water.

The instructions were somewhat lacking for me, but I have also never baked
bread myself. We also didn't take the sourdough culture with us, which in
hindsight was a wise decision. I had a feeling that something requiring daily
care would be too much effort for my taste. When I consulted the Internet on
how to make sourdough bread, all the entries promised how super easy it would
be, but the time factor and the extra kitchen utensils needed, like a proofing
basket, were just not for me. I already have enough to do keeping my students
in check via video conferences at the moment.

@Z: Sparkling water machine instead of Pellegrino

<pic images/fizzbuzz.ps The charcoal filter and the sparkling water machine as a Pellegrino substitute.>

<em>Michael</em> As you know, nothing annoys me more than standing in line for
trivial things. Dinner at the trendy restaurant where people wait for hours for
a table? Happens without me. Shopping on Sunday afternoon when Americans
trample on each other in supermarkets? No way, I only show up 15 minutes before
closing time, it's quicker then. Now you can surely imagine how thrilled I was
with the absurd government regulations during the coronavirus crisis. Long
lines formed in front of every supermarket like in the worst state-run
mismanagement, and instead of buying Pellegrino once a month at our mega
supermarket Costco, I had to look for new sources of sparkling water.

Now, tap water in America's big cities is heavily chlorinated, and that's
why we've only used it for cooking so far. But just in time before the supply
disruptions, I had ordered a Brita filter jug and a Sodastream sparkling water
machine from Amazon. The activated carbon in the filter removes the chlorine
from the water, supposedly also other contaminants, and after pressing the
button on the sparkling water machine twice, we have pristine mineral water in
glass bottles on the table. I was surprised at how good it tasted, and I'm not
sure if we'll ever go back to Pellegrino.

<pic images/sodastream-adapter.ps An adapter to connect the much cheaper regular gas cylinders to the Sodastream machine.>

Now the Sodastream crooks are making absurdly high profits with the carbon
dioxide (CO2) bottles that need to be exchanged every month. The cartridges
with 350g of CO2 for making sparkling water cost a whopping 30 dollars, and you
get 15 dollars back as a deposit, but only if you buy more expensive CO2 from
the Sodastream crooks; otherwise, the deposit is irretrievably lost. Obviously,
this is a total rip-off, because a kilo of CO2 costs only about 2 dollars,
which is something to think about! So, if you buy your CO2 for sparkling water
as "Beverage Grade CO2" from a welding supply store, you pay only about 60
cents for the amount in a Sodastream rip-off cartridge instead of $30.

On YouTube, there are now numerous
<LINK>https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S08OeYJkgjk|videos circulating|Sodastream Hack Video</LINK>
on how to connect the bubble machine with its
proprietory connector to regular CO2 gas cylinders from the welding shop, and
Amazon already offers
<LINK>https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0721W5Y91|Hoses and Adapters|Sodastream Adapter for Gas Bottles</LINK> for this purpose.

I ordered the hose right away despite the horrendous price of $90, even though
you could probably build something similar for $20 with parts from the hardware
store, but when it comes to pressurized gas, I'm rather conservative.
Unfortunately, due to COVID, we are currently experiencing the added difficulty
of a global CO2 shortage. The welding supply store in San Francisco is
currently only selling to regular customers. But this too shall pass, and the
CO2 will flow again, just wait and see!

@Z: Teddy bears in the window

<pic images/teddy-bear-poster.ps Instructions for the Teddy Bear Scavenger Hunt for Children.>

<em>Angelika</em> Anyone who works with young children or has their own
children knows the classic "We're Going on a Bear Hunt" by Michael Rosen. I
can't even count how many times I've reenacted this picture book story with
children, crawling through the tall grass, stomping in the mud, and swimming
through the river together, only to finally arrive at the bear's cave. Shortly
after the lockdown restrictions were imposed, we started seeing teddy bears
placed in windows during our walks.

<pic images/teddy-window-clipper.ps This family has placed a teddy bear in the window for the scavenger hunt.>

At first, we thought that children had just placed their stuffed animals in the
windows for no particular reason, but it soon became clear that there was more
to it -- essentially a pandemic game. The rules are simple: the task is to find
as many teddy bears in neighborhood windows as possible. It's a good way to
keep children entertained during the permitted outdoor walks. To be honest, we
also enjoy it, and we're always happy when we spot another bear.

<pic images/corona-sign.ps Encouraging sign on a balcony.>

Besides the bears, many people are also giving free rein to their artistic
ambitions, hanging signs with encouraging messages in their windows or on their
balconies. Our neighborhood is full of them: "Let the Distance Keep Us
Together" beamed at us from a balcony. Some also thank the medical staff or
other workers who are doing a lot during this crisis. On another side street
near us, a resident has decorated the sidewalk with large plastic flamingos
that smile at you cheerfully and spread good vibes.

<pic images/swings.ps All playgrounds are closed due to COVID-19.>

The idea, of course, had to be put to educational use right away and shared
with my students. I recorded a video of the signs during our walks, added my
commentary to the video, showed it to my students, and then had them create
similar signs and display them visibly in their windows.

@Z: Sewn masks

<pic images/mask-sew-m.ps Michael is still sewing fabric masks in his old age.>

<em>Michael</em> Although I am not a master tailor, I am a proud owner of a
sewing machine, can install the upper and lower threads, and sew simple
patterns. Since supermarkets in San Francisco now require customers to wear
masks, I reluctantly set about sewing two masks from leftover fabric with a
sushi motif, which I had used to upholster our dining chairs.

A really simple guide on<LINK>https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VUasSmReIVo|YouTube | Instructions for masks on YouTube</LINK>Here is the translation to English:

Following a simple guide on <LINK>https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VUasSmReIVo|YouTube|Instructions for masks on YouTube</LINK>, I managed to create two not only
perfectly fitting but also elegantly shaped masks with elastic bands for
strapping on, within less than an hour.

<pic images/mask-sew-a.ps Angelika's mask fits like it was tailor-made.>

Whether the masking helps at all, I still doubt, because you actually have to
wash and dry the masks after each use, and you must not touch your face with
your fingers when putting them on or taking them off. No idea if it does any
good at all, but rules are rules, as we know, and there's no getting around
that, and you have to go shopping at some point.

@Z: Open stores during Corona

<pic images/corona-boarded.ps The little corner shop is still open.>

<em>Angelika</em> While you guys in Germany can already look forward to easing
restrictions, things are not really progressing here. Far too few people are
still being tested for Corona in the USA, and even in California. No one really
knows how many people are actually infected here. A look at the statistics
reveals that officially 2,131 people in San Francisco (as of May 18, 2020) have
been infected with the coronavirus. That makes it well under 1 percent of the
881,549 residents! However, the number of unreported cases could be enormously
high.

<pic images/store-boarded.ps Especially stores that sell alcohol have boarded up their windows.>

Therefore, almost everything remains shut down here. What has been added to the
list of open businesses such as grocery stores, farmers' markets, medical
practices, hospitals, pharmacies, drugstores, banks, the post office,
laundromats, gas stations, auto repair shops, and hardware stores that we
mentioned in our last newsletter? Honestly, almost nothing. Only golf and
tennis courts, as well as garden centers, were allowed to reopen under certain
conditions on May 5th in San Francisco. And construction sites are allowed to
resume work. My dentist is open but is currently only treating emergency
patients. Other medical practices are just starting to slowly allow routine
visits again. Until now, this was either done via video conference or the
appointment was repeatedly postponed.

<pic images/wharf-bins-corona.ps No tourists at Fisherman's Wharf during the coronavirus crisis.>

Restaurant owners in San Francisco are still trying to stay afloat with
take-out service. When they will be allowed to serve guests at tables again is
still up in the air. However, starting today (May 18), Phase 2 of business
reopenings has begun in San Francisco. It is somewhat unclear how exactly this
will proceed. Customers are still not allowed to enter the stores; instead,
goods must be picked up at the curbside. Logically, the store would need a
proper website where customers can select their goods. However, many small
stores do not have their entire inventory online or are not set up for online
orders at all. Orders via phone or email would theoretically be possible if
customers know what they want. I am curious to see how this will work out, as
customers visit smaller stores precisely because they want to choose something
on-site. We will report in the next newsletter on how things have settled. By
the way, the regulations here are sometimes just as confusing as in Germany,
because while our Governor Newsom sets the guidelines for the whole of
California, individual counties and cities can impose their own stricter
regulations.

<pic images/wharf-ships-corona.ps Dead quiet at the excursion boats on San Francisco's tourist strip Fisherman's Wharf.>

Schools, however, are closed throughout California until after the summer
holidays. When this was announced, we educators at my school were a bit taken
aback, because distance learning sometimes frays the nerves of us, the
parents, and the children. That's why I can only laugh when politicians boast
that schools need to focus more on digital learning. Most of my students love
everything to do with computers, but they want nothing more than to sit in the
classroom with their schoolmates again. School conveys more than just learning
content and is immensely important for social development. Anyone who has ever
tried to get eight- or nine-year-olds to work independently, which digital
learning requires, knows what I'm talking about. Many students still have
difficulties with it.

Naively, I also thought that I'd have time to look into administrative tasks
during work hours now. Far from it. I actually spend the whole day in video
conferences with students and parents or in email contact to help, calm, and
motivate.  Honestly, I have more to do than usual. I also teach my
social-emotional learning class live via Zoom almost every day. By now, I am
quite skilled at designing games that we can play over video conference.

@Z: Reckless joggers

<pic images/corona-jogger.ps Only the jogger is not wearing a mask here.>

<em>Angelika</em> Anyone who has known me for a long time knows that I am not
exactly an enthusiastic sports fanatic. In school, I always had the worst
grades in physical education, which didn't really bother me because I preferred
being good in English and bad in sports rather than the other way around!
However, I often suffered a lot in gym class and had many rather clueless gym
teachers who didn't understand why it made me shudder and scared to jump over a
vaulting horse. Nowadays, I enjoy being active, especially outdoors: hiking,
swimming in the ocean, biking, boogie boarding in Hawaii; I'm in. There is a
widespread belief that the USA is only made up of overweight people who lounge
around on the couch, shoveling potato chips and popcorn into themselves. Of
course, as always, this is a bit of an oversimplification. For many Americans,
exercise and sports are also important.

And of course, there are also those who overdo it and spend the entire day
figuring out how to optimize their bodies. A visit to the beach in Los Angeles
reveals many such specimen who not only constantly train their muscles but
also feel the need to show off their well-toned bodies, whether their fellow
humans want to see it or not. I am generally suspicious of anything that comes
across as extreme: extreme political views as well as health fanatics. My motto
is more: everything in moderation. So far, I have had the impression that San
Franciscans like to be outdoors but are not completely crazy when it comes to
physical exercise. However, the coronavirus crisis has unfortunately led to
another epidemic in San Francisco. Since yoga and fitness studios are closed,
joggers are now clogging the streets, just like cars used to.

Based on my observations, joggers can be divided into three categories: those
who have always enjoyed jogging, those who have never run in their lives and
have now started jogging during the crisis —- usually noticeable by their
completely exhausted, red-faced appearance as they trot by, making you fear
they might collapse at any moment—and then those who can't live without jogging
and sprint through the landscape like maniacs, without any regard for others.

I'm currently not very fond of the latter category. As is well known, people
don't have eyes in the back of their heads, which also applies to pedestrians
on sidewalks. Some of these joggers, who sprint around at breakneck speed in a
straight line, seem to have forgotten this important fact. It has happened to
me several times that these joggers came so close to me that I could feel their
breath on my back before they rushed past me, even though there was plenty of
space to move aside. Apparently, it is too much to ask for them to deviate from
their straight line and run a bit of a slalom. I couldn't even protest loudly,
because this type of jogger usually has earplugs in, listening to music while
running.

<pic images/kite-hill.ps Michael is just walking here and not running in Kite Hill Park.>

Now, to be honest, I don't really know what danger of infection these joggers
pose. I think what bothers me more is the inconsiderateness of some people, but
that was already the case before the coronavirus crisis. Fortunately, the
majority of people we encounter on our daily walks keep their distance, or they
step aside, or sometimes even say thank you when we make room for them. Michael
is more relaxed about it than I am anyway. My theory is that in the current
crisis, people's personal risk tolerance greatly influences their behavior.

Lately, I keep thinking about a fascinating lecture in the field of psychology
at the castle in Münster from the time before my special education studies. The
fact that I still remember the content of the lecture after decades is
astonishing and shows how interesting I found the material. Professor Ulrich
Tränkle, a leading traffic psychologist, explained to us the psychology of risk
perception and how it affects decision-making. People do not necessarily assess
risks objectively, but subjectively, and this subjective perception often leads
to poor decisions. I wonder what the good Mr. Tränkle would say about the
current coronavirus measures? Unfortunately, he passed away in 1995 and can no
longer contribute to the discussion.

Best regards from Saint Frankstadt!

Angelika and Michael
