San Francisco, 09-11-2020

@Z: San Francisco Mass Exodus

<pic images/moving-1.ps There's a moving truck on every corner, lots of people are moving out of SF.>

<em>Michael</em> For about six months now, rent and real estate prices have
been declining rapidly in San Francisco. Reason seems to be that there's a mass
exodus happening, with young affluent people fleeing the city. On almost every
block, you can see moving trucks, and techies sheepishly loading in their
$3,000 bikes, and off they go to mommy and daddy in Kentucky! Just by walking
the neighborhood, you can peer into many empty homes, and every block has
at least one house for sale. Also, if you're in the market for expensive yuppie
crap, check out Craigslist for some real bargains!

Since most tech companies no longer require their employees to come to the
office, and also because San Francisco's entertainment value has gone down to
almost zero, with most restaurants closed and dance clubs shuttered for a
whopping six months now, hipsters no longer see a reason to stay around.  On
top of that, quality of life has been declining rapidly lately, with homeless
tent cities popping up in various neighborhoods, many small shops throwing the
towel and going out of business for good, I mean you can't even get simple
services like a hair cut anymore! Property and street crime has gone up by 100%
within the last year, due to the dramatic increase of the homeless population
and lack of police activity due to a "progressive" district attorney who
refuses to prosecute property crime even for repeat offenders. Who in their
right mind would pay astronomical amounts of rent to live in such a neglected place?

<pic images/moving-2.ps San Francisco has lost its charm, and young people are moving out quickly.>

Landlords are desparately trying to find new tenants for their properties, which is
really hard, even with drastically reduced rent, because of complete lack of demand
in the market with ample supply. Even in our building, there's three vacancies, 
all people in their twenties who have left the city to live someplace else. Oh,
and those fools who have invested in real estate at astronomical prices are now
facing financial hardships and cash flow problems, because mortgages still have
to be paid off.

<pic images/moving-3.ps Mostly young people are leaving San Francisco, often moving back in with their parents.>

If this trend continues, the market will be flooded with cheap supply, and it's
entirely possible that panic selling will start at some point if demand
continues to decrease. Although, if you look at the current average home price
in our expensive neighborhood, it's still around $2M, so there's still room for
steep corrections until we get to a sustainable level again.  Monitoring real
estate brokers, you can sense their anxiety anticipating a crash, while they're
reassuring their clients that price corrections will be only a few percentage
points.  I'd say: try 50 percent, every bubble is bound to burst at some point,
and the San Francisco real estate bubble has been ripe for a while now. The
market will fix even the most idiotic exhuberance at some point, that's one
thing you can always rely on.

@Z: Wildfires in California

<pic images/view-doomsday-2.ps The wildfires up north have released so much smoke into the atmosphere to tint San Francisco brown-orange, just like in some dystopian movie.>

<em>Angelika</em> One night in mid August this year, we woke up to rolling
thunder and intensly bright lightning.  Thunderstorms are extremely rare in the
San Franciso Bay Area, I can count the occations on the fingers of one hand
since we moved here 20 years ago. Also, they don't happen in combination with rain,
which is concerning in a region without any precipitation all summer long.
Vegetation becomes bone dry only a few months into summer, and if lightning strikes, 
there's a high likelihood of a devastating wild fire to start. And indeed, a few
days later, forest fires in many regions in California were all over the news.

<pic images/view-doomsday.ps 09/09/2020 at 12 noon: The sun hasn't come up in San Francisco, due to heavy smoke and ashes blown into the atmosphere by the wild fires up north.>

Last Wednesday (9/9/2020) we woke up and thought we were on a different planet.
Everything outside was cast in red-orange light, and no sun anywhere. It was
so dark outside that we had to keep the indoor lights on the entire day. We lost track
of the time of day. "Apocalyptic" is probaby the best way to describe the scenery.
Meteorologists tried to calm down the population, and explained that the phenomenon
occurs when smoke particles are floating upwards into higher regions of the atmosphere,
breaking the sunlight before it reaches the surface, creating a red-orange tint,
similar to what happens during a sunset. But, believe me, I've seen many sunset,
and none of them looked even close to what happened here on Wednesday.
Surprisingly, the air didn't smell smokey at all that day, apparently the particles
were indeed high up there without floating down. However, I noticed that it was raining
ashes from the sky, and when I got out on the balcony to take a few photos, I noticed
some particles on my t-shirt. Now the news is that not only California is affected by the
wildfires, but increasingly the States further north, Oregon and Washington.

<pic images/view-smog.ps Smoke created by wildfires in the surrounding areas starts drifting into the city.>

So far, a total of 560 wild fires have been registered across California.  Here in
the city of San Francisco, we don't have any fires, luckily, but there are quite
a few raging forest fires in the surrounding areas.  The fires have been going
on in Point Reyes, Santa Cruz, and in the Wine Country.  Although large area
wild fires have been a common occurrance in California for many years now,
their impact is more severe under Covid conditions. Mass evacuations and
fighting fires while practicing social distancing are new challenges.  Also,
this year, the fires came earlier than in the past, the usual fire season
starts in October. We should have known it, nothing is like it was in 2020!

<pic images/smoke-red.ps Smoke from the wild fires creates nice sunsets, but it is extremely annoying.>

The surrounding fires impacted San Francisco's air quality severely for several
weeks.  Often, we woke up, looking at downtown through thick layer of haze,
inhaling bad air that smelled like an extinguished camp fire, irrating our
sinuses. Around four a clock in the afternoon, city air quality often got
slightly better due to the the upcoming winds.  Which is when we opened all
doors and windows, which we had kept tighly closed until this point, to lock
out hot air and smoky smells. To exactly hit the proper point in time, we ran
hourly spot checks on our balcony, and also monitored
<LINK>https://cfpub.epa.gov/airnow/index.cfm?action=airnow.local_city\&cityid=317|air
quality sites on the Internet|Air Quality Monitor</LINK>, which constantly
measured air quality and counted unhealthy floating particles, publishing the
results for different cities and counties.

<pic images/purple-air.ps Due to surrounding forest fires, the Bay Area's air quality went from good to hazardous.>

The categories are: good, moderate, unhealthy for sensitive groups (people with
pre-existing conditions like asthma), unhealthy, very unhealthy, hazardous.
We'll go out for a walk when we sense the air doesn't smell like a hundred full
ash trays, or when the quality index is "moderate" or better. We always put on our
Corona-defying cloth masks, but ironically they're utterly useless against the
smoke particles. To filter these out, we'd need N95 masks, but those are better
left to medical staff and shouldn't be bought off the market. A catch-22, no
doubt. I found it interesting that it took the German news show Tagesschau,
which we're watching religiously every day, a long time to start reporting on
the fires in California. The general chaos of the year 2020 probably weighted
heavier than our entire state affected by forest fires.

<pic images/ob-masks.ps San Francisco's Ocean Beach has strong winds, which blow away the smoke and make it safe for walking.>

@Z: National small change shortage due to Corona

<pic images/quarters.ps Der "quarter" coin is still an important form of currency.>

<em>Michael</em> Once a week is laundry day in our apartment, we're hauling
several baskets full of dirty laundry down to the in-house laundromat and
use the washers and dryers there. Each of them wants to be fed with quarter
coins, and since one wash cycle costs $2.50, this requires ten coins each time.
Each additional load adds more, and after the finishing spin cycle, the wet
laundry needs to go in the dryer, which costs an additional $2.00 per load.
In this way, it's not uncommon, that we spend 40 quarters per week, just for
doing laundry.

<pic images/laundromat-quarters.ps The washer in the in-house laundromat downstairs requires lots of quarters as payment.>

No one carries that much small change in their wallets, of course, which is
why we go to the bank every couple of months, bring a big shopping bag and
carry home a kilo of these quarters. When I started doing the bank runs many years ago, I
tried to be funny and asked the cashier if they could get me one of those cotton bags with an
imprinted dollar signs for my loot, just like they do in cartoons, but this
joke got old at some point. Recently, however, something rather surprising happened:
The other day, the cashier told me that she could no longer provide me with $200 in quarters,
as all banks were rationing them, and the maximum I could get was a single
roll with $10 worth of quarters (40). What!?

The reason for this predicament was revealed recently
<LINK>https://www.pennlive.com/nation-world/2020/07/us-coin-shortage-how-wawa-walmart-and-more-are-dealing-with-a-lack-of-quarters-dimes-nickles-and-pennies.html|in the news|US Coin shortage</LINK>: Due to the economic slump caused by the
Corona virus, customers have drastically reduced their visits to brick and
mortar stores, and hence have stopped handing over their hard earned coins in
exchange for desired goods, preventing the stores from returning these coins to the
bank, which in turn caused a disruption of the natural flow of small change through the
economy.  I would have thought that hardly anyone around here pays cash
anymore, let alone with small change, because most people use credit cards, but what do I know!
The sad truth is that quarters are extremely hard to come by these days.

<pic images/quarter-rolls.ps Luckily, we've been hoarding quarters for the laundromat for several months.>

Some tentants already offered their landlords to buy back the quarters burried
inside the machines. In our building, however, this isn't quite as straight
forward, as the washers and dryers are being operated by a commercial service
company.  Laundromats in our neighborhood reportedly exchange dollar bills for
quarters for their customers, but insist that the coins are being used on the
premises and won't allow them to be carried home.  If you're now thinking
"Jeez, just set up washers with card readers!", then you have no idea about the
amount of inertia working against any progress that involves large scale
investments without immediate payoff in America.

In the end, it will most likely lead to shady businesses peddling quarters at
inflated prices to desperated customers, similar to what happened during the
international toilet paper crisis of 2020. Luckily, I had just been to the bank
shortly before this mess started, and our quarter storage drawer is filled with
several months of supplies. Hopefully, this will help us with our laundry needs
until the quarter circulation problem has been fixed.  Otherwise, we'll be
skimping and stretch out the laundy schedule, washing our clothes only once
every two weeks to save quarters should be feasible in a pinch.

@Z: Corona Restrictions

<pic images/supercuts-24.ps Last week the Supercuts hair salon on our street started offering haircuts on the sidewalk.>

<em>Angelika</em> As we're regular viewers of the German news show Tagesschau,
every single day for more than a decade to be exact, we've recently become
aware about how different countries are imposing very different types of
restrictions on their citizens to battle the Corona crisis. We learned that
apparently in Germany, there's nothing more important than traveling to your
summer vacation destination. In comparison, I'd be quite happy already if at
least my hair salon would be allowed to open again.  It feels like we're stuck
in a time capsule here in San Francisco. Mayor London Breed has put city life
to a grinding halt since mid March, and there's been hardly any remediation
since. I keep getting emails from the hair salon that they're going to open
real soon now, but several dates have now been canceled, because Corona case
numbers kept bouncing back. I've come to the conclusion that we'll have to
wait until a vaccine is available, to see the city come back to life.

<pic images/sf-market-boarded.ps Ghost town San Francisco: Almost every store on Market Street has shuttered and boarded up their windows.>

Since our last newsletter (<RBLINK>20200519#8</RBLINK>), there's been very
little change, except that some stores which are offering their services
outside, are allowed to open now. Restaurants are permitted to serve their
customers at outside tables as well, also, the San Francisco Zoo and our
Botanic Garden are again open to the public. Several gyms have moved their
equipment onto the adjacent sidewalks, where members are allowed to work out.
Unfortunately, outside business is hampered right now by the extremely bad air
quality due to the recent wild fires in the area, which keeps desperately
needed customers away, creating cash flow problems.

<pic images/corona-playground.ps This playground was closed by the city, due to Corona.>

Also, summer camps with up to twelve children are permitted, and preschool
classes with small groups have reopened in San Francisco. But all public
schools in San Francisco remain closed! For retail business like clothing
stores, there's strict mask and social distancing regulations, but they're
open. The sad truth, however, is that many small and medium sized stores ran
out of money and have been shuttered permanently.  According to a survey
conducted by the chamber of commerce, a whopping 54% of all stores went out of
business! When I went to a dentist's appointment in July in downtown San
Francisco (which has been permitted since June), the city was deserted, with
many businesses looking rather bleak with boarded up window fronts.

<pic images/no-mask-no-service.ps Even the smallest stores require customers to wear masks.>

What's confusing is that our governor Gavin Newsom lays out regulations for
all of California, but individual cities and counties are permitted to have
stricter rules. This results in wildly fluctuating restrictions even within
a few miles, impacting daily life in different ways. At first, a so-called
"watch list" determined what kind of restrictions individual counties in California
had to enforce. If a county had the bad luck of landing on this watch list,
certain stores had to close and various activities were shuttered.

To avoid ending up on this list, the county needs to have less than 100 cases per
population of 100,000, averaged over 14 days. Also, the positive test rate must
be lower than 8%. In addition, the hospitalization rate for Covid patients must
be less than 10%, averaged over three days, and more than 20% of all IC units
must be available. All Bay Area counties, including San Francisco, were on the
list, but none managed to get off of it. The "watch list" reaped lots of criticism.
And, totally out of the blue, governor Gavin Newsom announced at the end of August,
that California had discontinued using the "watch list" in favor of a four
color classification system (Figure (#1)
and <LINK>https://covid19.ca.gov/safer-economy|California's Covid Information Page</LINK>).
It determines which businesses are allowed to open. Each county's color/class is determined
by its infection rate and its positve test rate.

<pic images/corona-color-table.ps (#1) The governor marks individual counties with colors based on their measured Corona infection rates.>

If county is in the yellow tier, meaning that there's less than one infected
person per 100,000 residents, and also less than 2% of tests administered come
back positive, practically all businesses are allowed to open. Counties in the
(worst) purple tier, with more than seven infected of a population of 100,000,
or a positive test rate of more than 8%, are in a dire place, because only
absolutely essential businesses like grocery stores are allowed to open.
Currently, San Francisco is in the red tier (4-7 infected per 100,000 and
2%-4.9% postitive test rate), and governor Gavin Newsom allowed hair salons to
open with enhanced safety precaution protocols.

Also, California schools were allowed to open as well, but San Francisco mayor
London Breed prefers a more careful approach. Hair salons in San Francisco are
only allowed to cut hair outside in the open air. San Francisco schools are
still closed. And the hair salon I go to doesn't want to offer their services
on the sidewalk, so it's still Michael coloring and cutting my hair. In the meantime,
he's gotten so good at it that we may be opening our own salon soon.

@Z: Slow Streets in San Francisco

<pic images/slow-street-sanchez-chair.ps This "slow street" has been closed to through traffic and residents use it for walks and hanging out.>

<em>Michael</em> Due to the lack of entertainment options during Corona, many residents
in our neighborhood have, just like us, adopted the habit of daily extended walks through
city streets. It is not easy to maintain social distancing etiquette on busy and
narrow sidewalks, though, and the city came up with the new idea of declaring select
streets as "slow" and allow pedestrians to use the road as well.

<pic images/slow-street-map.ps The "slow street" program has been expanded all across San Francisco.>

It didn't take long and the bureaucrats at SFMTA, San Francisco's Municipal Transportation
Agency, responsible for street construction, maintenance and parking tickets, called out
a city wide 
<LINK>https://www.sfmta.com/projects/slow-streets-program|Slow Streets Program</LINK>.
At every intersection with other city streets, those slow streets then received
big signs declaring "Road Closed To Through Traffic", indicating that only residents
and their visitors could use them, but not drivers just crossing through.

<pic images/slow-street-a.ps This "Slow Street" has been closed to through traffic, and pedestriants are allowed to walk on the road.>

However, the concept of virtually car-free streets was news to many locals here, and confused
residents turned to the neighborhood forum app "Nextdoor" to inquire whether it
was still okay to drive their own cars into their garages if they lived on one of
the slow streets. Also, some stubborn sports car driving non-residents didn't seem to think
the signs applied to them and drove through the slow sections anyway.
In the Mission district, mainly home to immigrants from Mexico and Middle America, some signs mysteriously
disappeared overnight, others were found kicked to the curb.

<pic images/slow-street-bikers.ps In the more affluent neighborhoods, the "Slow Streets" program was quite successful and many people used the road for walking and riding their bicycles.>

In the meantime, the new ordinance has reported a fairly high acceptance rate,
although some slow street residents have voiced complaints about overzealous
pedestrians yelling at them when they're driving up to their residences.
Especially the more affluent neighborhoods have embraced the concept, and it's
a joy to see families with small children, the latter riding around on
city streets on their tiny bikes, which would be otherwise unthinkable in San
Francisco. You can see adults jogging, riding skateboards and bicycles, using
the entire width of the road. In less well off neighborhoods, like the Mission,
as well as the less densely populated ones, like the Richmond or Sunset, the
program is partially ignored, and as a pedestriant, you have to watch out or be
run over by speeding cars.

<pic images/slow-street-handwritten.ps One resident has replaced the stolen "Slow Street" sign by a hand written one.>

@Z: US Census

<pic images/census-sign.ps A sign reminds people to take part in the upcoming census.>

<em>Angelika</em> It's hard to believe that yet another ten years have gone by, and it's
time again for the US Census again. This one is our third time around (2000, 2010, 2020),
but like everything today it was heavily influenced by Corona. Ten years ago, there
was a questionaired mailed to individual households (<RBLINK>20100509#10</RBLINK>), which
had to be completed. For those who did not comply, a friendly census employee came by
in person, to knock on the door and help filling out the form.
This time around, it was pretty evident, even before Corona hit, that the bureau had
hoped to get people to answer the census questions online. It was the first time in
history that this option even existed. And because of Corona, the bureau naturally aimed to
reduce the number of census employees having to visit people in their homes.

TODO

Der Wechsel von Papier zur Online-Version bereitete natürlich auch vielen
Bauchschmerzen, denn es werden ja wichtige Daten mit enormer Relevanz
abgefragt. Experten fürchteten Sicherheitslücken und Hackerangriffe.  Das Ziel
der Volkszählung ist es, wirklich jeden Bürger zu erfassen, dabei spielt weder
die Staatsbürgerschaft eine Rolle, noch ob sich der Einzelne legal im Land
befindet oder nicht.

<pic images/census-jobs.ps Gegen Bezahlung gehen Leute von Tür zu Tür, um die Daten für die Volkszählung zu erfassen.>

Vor der Volkszählung gab es große Aufregung, weil Trump \& Co forderten, die
Frage der Staatsbürgerschaft mit ins Formular aufzunehmen. Viele sorgten sich,
dass dies zu einem schiefen Ergebnis führen könnte, weil Bürger ohne
amerikanische Staatsbürgerschaft aus Angst, dass solche Daten gegen sie
verwendet werden, dann lieber gar nichts ausfüllen und abgeben. In
Bundesstaaten wie Kalifornien und New York mit einem hohen Anteil an illegalen
Einwanderern ist es eh schon ein Kraftakt, Illegale zum Mitmachen zu bewegen.
Ein genaues Ergebnis ist aber wichtig, denn die Zahl der Einwohner bestimmt die
Höhe staatlicher Finanzspritzen für den jeweiligen Bundesstaat und die Anzahl
der Abgeordneten im Repräsentantenhaus. Nach einigem rechtlichen Hin und Her
wurde die Frage nach der Staatsangehörigkeit schließlich doch nicht eingefügt,
weil die Census-Behörde drängelte, dass die Formulare endlich in die
Druckerpresse müssten bzw. die Programmierer das Softwareprogramm dementsprechend
anzugleichen hätten. Von 1890 bis 1950 beinhaltete der Fragebogen übrigens die
Staatsbürgerschaftsfrage.

Wie ging das nun genau vor sich mit der diesjährigen Volkszählung? Die
Aufforderung landete bei uns im Briefkasten. Der Brief war übrigens nur an die
Adresse addressiert und nicht auf unseren Namen (bekanntlich gibt es
hier kein Meldegesetz). "To resisident at" mit unserer Adresse stand schlicht
darauf.

Das Anschreiben erklärte den Sinn und Zweck der Volkszählung, wies darauf
hin, dass man rechtlich verpflichtet ist, daran teilzunehmen und dass ein
Papierfragebogen nach einigen Wochen zugestellt würde, falls man sich gegen
die Online-Option entscheidet. Dann war groß in einem umrandeten Kasten die
Webseite "my2020census.gov" angegeben und eine Identifizierungsnummer, die auf
der Webseite einzugeben war, um den Fragebogen zu aktivieren. Auf der Webseite
musste ich dann die folgenden Fragen für unseren Haushalt beantworten:

<pic images/census-form.ps Auf dem Volkszählungsbogen sind Dutzende von Fragen zu beantworten.>

1. Wieviele Personen lebten oder befanden sich am 1. April 2020 in Ihrem Apartment, Haus oder Mobilheim?

2. Gab es weiterte Personen, die sich am 1. April 2020 mit Ihnen aufhielten, aber nicht in Frage 1 mit eingeschlossen wurden? (Damit sind z.B. Personen gemeint, die nur temporär in der Wohnung leben).

3. Besitzen Sie ihr Haus, Apartment oder Mobilheim, mieten Sie es oder wohnen Sie mietfrei?

4. Was ist Ihre Telefonnummer?

5. Was ist der Name, der ersten Person, die hier lebt?

6. Ist die Person männlich oder weiblich?

7. Was ist das Alter und Geburtsdatum von Person 1?

8. Ist die Person hispanischer, lateinamerikanischer oder spanischer Herkunft?

9. Was ist die Rasse von Person 1? Zur Auswahl stehen: Weiß, schwarz oder Afro-Amerikaner, Indianer oder Ureinwohner Alaskas, Chinese, Vietnamese, Hawaiianer, Japaner, Philippino, Koreaner, Inder, Samoer, Chamorro, andere Einwohner von Pazifikinseln, andere Rasse. Man kann dabei mehrere Kästchen ankreuzen.

10. Vor-und Nachname von Person 2

11. Lebt die Person in der Regel woanders?

12. In welchem Verwandschaftsverhältnis steht Person 2 zu Person 1?

13. Ist die Person männlich oder weiblich?

14. Was ist das Alter und Geburtsdatum von Person 2?

15. Ist die Person hispanischer, lateinamerikanischer oder spanischer Herkunft?

16. Was ist die Rasse von Person 2?

Das geht dann immer so weiter, je nachdem, wieviele Personen in dem Haushalt
leben. Die Frage nach der Rassenzugehörigkeit ist in den USA Standard in
Formularen, klingt aber für deutsche Ohren sicher merkwürdig. Das
Census-Formular erklärt übrigens, warum spanisch, hispanisch und
lateinamerikanisch als separate Kategorien aufgelistet werden: Weil sie für den
Zweck der Volkszählung nicht als Rasse eingestuft werden.  Interessant ist
auch, dass der volle Name anzugeben ist. Dies soll sicherstellen, dass Personen
nicht zweimal gezählt werden. Die Census-Behörde bombardiert einen übrigens
schnell mit Er\-inner\-ungs\-schrei\-ben, wenn man das Formular nicht sofort ausfüllt.
Als wir neulich von einem unserer Spaziergänge zurück kamen, stand eine
Volkszählerin vor der Tür unseres Hauses und wollte wissen, wie sie zu
bestimmten Wohnungen in unserem Haus gelangen könnte, denn es gab in unserem
Mietshaus drei Parteien, die das Formular noch nicht ausgefüllt hatten. Wir
sagten ihr natürlich gleich, dass wir unsere schon online erledigt hatten.

@Z: Illegale Autorennen

<pic images/sideshow-mission.ps Auch tagsüber finden in San Francisco mitten in der Stadt auf öffentlichen Straßen sogenannte "Sideshows" statt.>

<em>Michael</em> Neulich wachte ich mitten in der Nacht auf, weil in unserem
eher noblen und ruhigen Wohnviertel auf einmal ein Getöse infernalen Ausmaßes
ausbrach.  Ich hörte das typisch blech\-erne Motorenscheppern überdrehter
amerikanischer Muscle-Cars und Reifengummi, der sich quietschend über Asphalt
abrieb. Kein Zweifel: Die unausgelasteten Jugendlichen, die sonst auf
Supermarktparkplätzen in Oakland ihre Kärren sogenannte "Donuts" drehend im
Kreis fahren, hatten nun auch unser idyllisches Wohnviertel für ihre illegalen
Aktivitäten entdeckt.

<pic images/sideshow-marks.ps Am nächsten Tag zeigen sich Spuren nächtlicher Sideshows auf den Straßen.>

Und während sonst untertags jede Fußballmutti, die ihren Minivan am Stoppschild
nicht ordnungsgemäß zum kompletten Stillstand bringt, gnadenlos rausgezogen und
mit einem $400-Dollar-Strafmandat belegt wird, schritt die Polizei bei den
aufgedrehten Jugendlichen aus Angst nicht ein. Von Anwohnern alarmierte
Polizisten blockten lediglich den sonstigen Verkehr an den betroffenen
Kreuzungen und ließ die Donut-Fahrer gewähren. Als diese genug hatten,
fuhren sie ungestraft wieder heim, unbelangt auch, als sie dabei Dutzende
roter Ampeln und Stoppschilder mit Vollgas überfuhren.

<pic images/defund.ps Trotzige Nachbarn beharren darauf, dass die Mittel für die Polizei gestrichen werden.>

Das zeigt euch, dass mittlerweile in San Francisco eine
Zwei-Klassengesellschaft herrscht: Gesetze gelten für die Reichen, die
Mittellosen dürfen sich straffrei austoben. "Victimless Crime" nennt dies der
neuerdings von ahnungslosen Deppen ins Amt gewählte Staatsanwalt Chesa Boudin.
Auf dem Papier sind Straßenrennen freilich illegal, wird ein Fahrer erwischt,
drohen nicht nur der Entzug der Fahrerlaubnis sondern auch Geld- oder
Gefängnisstrafen. Allerdings ist die Polizei in San Francisco neuerdings dazu
übergegangen, die Chaoten nicht mehr rauszuziehen, sondern lässt sie einfach
machen und sieht tatenlos zu, um Konfrontationen zu vermeiden.  Den restlichen
Anwohnerverkehr leiten sie weiträumig um, damit's nicht zu Unfällen kommt. Eine
bizarre Welt.

Mancherorts steht sogar das bloße Zuschauen bei Side-Shows unter Strafe!  So
kam letztes Jahr in San Jose <LINK>https://www.kron4.com/news/bay-area/watching-a-sideshow-in-san-jose-is-now-a-crime/1969817695/|ein Gesetz|Zuschauerstrafen bei Side-Shows in San Jose</LINK> durch, das Anwesende
bei Side-Shows mit einer Geldstrafe von $1000 oder 6 Monaten Gefängnis
abwatscht. Wohlhabende Bürger suchen besser gleich das Weite, wenn die Reifen
zu quietschen beginnen!

Liebe Grüße aus der närrischsten Stadt der Welt:

Angelika und Michael
