San Francisco, 04-25-2021

@Z: Vaccinating for Corona in San Francisco

<pic images/vax-lane.ps You can get vaccinated while driving through a tent, remaining seated in your car.>

<em>Angelika</em> For the whole last year we felt like we were in a perpetual
lockdown, and the whole world pitied the USA. It seemed like this great country
couldn't get a handle on the pandemic. Now it seems like everything has turned
around, because after some initial stumbling blocks, the vaccination campaign
has gotten off to a good start. In San Francisco, 60% have now received their
first vaccination and almost 40% are fully vaccinated. There is no longer any
prioritization, but anyone over 16 can make an appointment for a vaccination.

Across the US, there are now almost
<LINK>https://covid.cdc.gov/covid-data-tracker/#vaccinations|30 percent of all Americans are vaccinated.</LINK>
The same applies to California. In the
US, people receive either Moderna, Pfizer/Biontech
or Johnson and Johnson. The latter was temporarily suspended by the health
authorities due to some serious cases of thrombosis, but is now available
again. Other vaccines such as Astra Zeneca are not yet approved in the US.
Except for the Johnson and Johnson vaccine, everyone needs two doses, which are
given here at intervals of 3-6 weeks. I received the Pfizer vaccine at
intervals of four weeks and am now fully vaccinated. Michael received his first
dose of Moderna on Easter and the second will be given on May 1st.
Interestingly, no one here says Pfizer/Biontech, but usually just Pfizer, while
we notice that it is always called Biontech/Pfizer in the German press.

How does the vaccination process work here? In the US, it was up to each
individual state to organize and determine who gets the vaccine first. The CDC
(Centers for Disease Control) released guidelines for this. In California, it
initially ran somewhat chaotically. They quickly agreed that medical and
nursing staff caring for coronavirus patients, as well as those over 80, would
be first in line, but then the tug-of-war and bargaining began. Who belonged in
the second priority group? The cashier at the supermarket, the teacher at
school, the homeless person, the field worker harvesting the vegetables? Or
should the younger ones with serious pre-existing conditions be first? Or
should they just go by age, as in some other states, such as Connecticut and
Maine?

<pic images/vax-uca.ps Angelika at the vaccination center.>

Our Governor Gavin Newsom was a bit stressed because he was dealing with a
recall process and he didn't want to put his foot in it. In San Francisco,
everyone loves to discuss. We often have the impression that it is more about
who is right than about getting something done, but in the end they got
together and set the following order: In Phase 1A, people were eligible who
work with patients or in nursing homes, as well as residents of nursing homes
and seniors of advanced age. In Phase 1B, citizens over 65 followed, and people
working in schools or in the food industry and agriculture, as well as police
officers and firefighters. In mid-March, people of any age with chronic
illnesses, as well as prison inmates, homeless people and people in the
transport sector were next. From April 1st, citizens over 50 became eligible.
Since April 15th, everyone over 16 can register for a vaccination.

<pic images/vax-maze.ps At the drive-through, the cars must first go through a maze.>

Since I work in a school, I was pretty quickly in line. However, things were
not running smoothly at the time either, and I had to navigate through the
chaos of decentralized regulations. Here too, one hand often does not know what
the other is doing. First of all, I had to inform myself about the
relevant regulations in the city of San Francisco and register on the
<LINK>https://sf.gov|city website</LINK>.
I answered a few questions online: age, occupation, any
pre-existing conditions, and if I live in cramped conditions (e.g. homeless
shelter). Then I gave my email, so the city could notify me when it was my turn.
Promptly I received confirmation that I was part of the Phase 1B group.

There were also a series of events in parallel.<LINK>myturn.ca.gov|California
State Registration Page</LINK>So I signed up too, following the motto that two
is better than one. Then it was a waiting game. In California, the authorities
decided to work with large health organizations such as Kaiser Permanente,
Sutter Health, Stanford Health, and in San Francisco, UCSF (University
Hospital). My primary care doctor is affiliated with UCSF, and since the
hospital has a good reputation in research, I regularly checked their Covid
information. And suddenly I saw that there were already vaccination offers for
school staff in a specially set up vaccination clinic, even though San
Francisco was not yet in Phase 1B.

So I quickly made an appointment through the patient portal "Mychart". I could
hardly believe my luck and thought at first that it might be a mistake. But on
Sunday, February 14th, we drove to the UCSF complex on Parnassus Avenue (UCSF
has buildings and hospitals spread throughout the city), and I received the
injection with the Pfizer vaccine. In the vaccination clinic, I had to quickly
answer the usual Covid questionnaire, show my California driver's license, and
say what time my appointment was. Then employees took me to a room that looked
like a classroom without desks. There were at least nine such vaccination
rooms. In mine, there were three chairs generously distributed in the room, on
which two already vaccinated people were sitting for observation. Then there
was one more chair on which the vaccination was to be done and I sat down
on it.

The vaccinator asked me for my name and birthdate again. Then he informed me
that I would be getting the Pfizer vaccine, which I hadn't known before. He
asked if I was okay with that and if I had ever had an allergic reaction to a
vaccine before. I didn't have to prove that I worked at a school, even though
the appointment listed what to bring as proof (pay stub or ID). Then I got the
shot. At the end, my vaccinator gave me an immunization card, which he had
written by hand what first dose I had just received and when. The document is
officially issued by the CDC, but looks like a white index card, which of
course is not tamper-proof, because there is not even an official stamp on it.

I had even brought my German vaccination passport, but nobody here could do
anything with it. After that, I joined the other vaccinated people and waited
the prescribed 15 minutes obediently on the chair, while I had a nice
conversation with my companions and Michael was already impatiently waiting for
me in the car outside. All the vaccinated people were euphoric. We naturally
exchanged our experiences of how we had managed to get the much sought-after
appointment. After the first vaccination, I felt nothing at all, except that my
arm with the injection site hurt a bit for a few days, which was not worth
mentioning. After four weeks, I made my way to the vaccination clinic again.
That was also a nerve-wracking experience, because the vaccine was still scarce
and there were always reports of shortages leading to the cancellation of
second vaccinations. But I was lucky. I got the second shot as
scheduled on March 14th. At first I felt great, almost a bit hyper, but the
next day I had slight body aches and a leaden fatigue. But all this only lasted
24 hours and then it was gone.

Michael is always happy to let me take the lead on things that involve a lot of
bureaucracy. However, it would be very impractical if one person in the family
was vaccinated and the other wasn't, so I insisted that he get vaccinated as
soon as he was eligible. Meanwhile, two large mass vaccination centers in San
Francisco had popped up, one at the Moscone Center downtown, and one at City
College near Balboa Park. The latter is a "drive thru", meaning you get
vaccinated while sitting in your car. That works for Michael.

Although the vaccination center at City College was also managed by the UCSF
healthcare center, this time you could not register through their own patient
portal, but only through the California site "myturn.ca.gov", which then
forwarded you to a third party, which of course did not please our data fox
Michael. As I said, they don't make it easy for those who want to be
vaccinated. However, there were actually appointments, and we drove to the
place at the agreed time at the beginning of April. Everything was highly
professionally organized. First we drove through a labyrinth of traffic cones.
Then Michael had to show his driver's license and the barcode he had received
online. A friendly man then stuck a red Post-it note on our windshield to
indicate that one person in the car had an appointment for vaccination; for
two, there would have been two Post-it notes accordingly. Then we drove to
another large parking lot. A dozen lanes each led to tent-like structures for
entry by car.

After driving under the tent, a few things were asked that Michael had already
answered online, but that's always the case here, as everyone prefers to
double-check.  The questions included possible allergies. It was also checked
whether Michael had already had Covid or had received certain treatments for
it. Then came the injection, and Michael didn't even have to get out of the
car, he just had to open the car door. Then he also received his vaccination
card and drove to a parking lot to wait 15 minutes as instructed. A nurse who
was patrolling between the parked cars told him to just press the horn if he felt
strange in any way.  After the 15 minutes had passed, we simply drove back home.

In addition to the large vaccination centers, drugstore chains "Walgreens",
"CVS" and "Rite-Aid" also offer vaccination appointments. The megamarket
"Costco" also vaccinates in its own pharmacy. However, family doctors are not
currently vaccinating here in California. But there are also smaller
vaccination sites where no appointment is needed. They are often found in
densely populated areas, or where mainly people who are not proficient in
English or overwhelmed by navigating the various providers live.

<pic images/vax-drive.ps After getting vaccinated, you must drive to a parking lot and wait for 15 minutes.>

Interestingly, we are now in the phase where there are more appointments available
than people willing to get vaccinated. People who were very eager to get the vaccine
and went to great lengths to get an appointment are now done with their second
dose. We now get almost daily emails or phone calls to notify us that there are
open appointments. As I said, communication is a bit lacking. This does not
necessarily mean that there is an army of anti-vaxxers, but many were just
waiting or not actively trying to get an appointment. I also read in the New
York Times that 8% do not show up for their second appointment because they are
either afraid of the side effects or think one dose is enough. For some, their
second appointment was cancelled due to lack of vaccine and they just gave up,
which is not a problem with Johnson and Johnson since only one dose is needed.
So let's hope people don't lose faith. I can't wait for the coronavirus to be
over.

@Z: Fry's Electronics gone bankrupt

<pic images/frys-san-jose.ps Fry's in San Jose designed in a pyramid-look. Photo: flickr[bryce_edwards|bryce_edwards/2273387520]>

<em>Michael</em> I remember my first visit to the electronics discount store
"Fry's Electronics" 24 years ago. We had just moved to California, the gold
rush in Silicon Valley was in full swing, and anyone looking to buy computer
components regularly hung around one of the many scattered Fry's branches to
marvel at the incredible prices and even more incredible discounts. At Fry's I
saw for the first time that a product was offered in a store at a negative
price, a package of disks for $0.99, with a $1.99 mail-in rebate.

Each Fry's branch was decorated according to a certain theme; the store on
Brokaw Road in San Jose was like a pyramid in the land of the Pharaohs, a
monstrous UFO burst through the wall of the Burbank strip mall, and in the Palo
Alto branch, cowboys and Indians of the Wild West showed what it was like in
the 19th century in the area. Full-size concert grand pianos were scattered
around the stores, automatically playing classical pieces. And not to forget
the giant magazine stand, which carried the current "Linux Magazine", the
vehicle of your humble writer's programming column. But most importantly, the
chain was a huge success; shoppers crowded into the stores late into the night,
loaded their newly purchased, state-of-the-art PC hardware into their cars, and
a real geek scene flourished there.

These times are obviously long gone, the online giants have completely drained
the presence of department stores in the last ten years. Strangely, Fry's
stores still held on, even though there were hardly any customers and hardly
any products in the shelves. Since Fry's was not listed on the stock exchange
being a privately owned company, no one could look into the books and estimate
how long the empire would last.

<pic images/frys-burbanks.ps A UFO is crashing through the wall of Fry's Electronics in Burbank. Photo: flickr[bryce_edwards|bryce_edwards/229692591]>

However, the store had always operated on the edge of legality, it was widely
known that they would simply re-seal exchanged products in plastic wrap and
sell them as new, which is illegal in California. I also saw increasingly
disgruntled and desperate employees on my dwindling visits, so I would have bet
good money for the past five years that the store would eventually close.
Recently, some YouTubers even went out to visit scattered branches and pointed
to the empty shelves making long faces.

Now it's official: Fry's has officially filed for bankruptcy in February 2021
and closed all of its stores. The battle is lost, but "It was good while it
lasted", as we say here in America.

@Z: Amazon Returns at the Supermarket

<pic images/amzn-return-kohl.ps Amazon is using struggling department stores for its returns.>

<em>Michael</em> Occasionally we have to exchange items that we have purchased
online, whether it be a piece of clothing that doesn't fit or an electronic
device that doesn't work as expected. No problem! At Amazon, the customer is
still king, exchanging items is relatively uncomplicated, just repack it, put
it in a box, print out the free shipping label, but then you have to take the
package to the post office or to a branch of the FedEx or UPS delivery
services.

The process is not only inconvenient for the customer, but also costly for
Amazon, as shipment companies charge for their services, which Amazon has to
shoulder. Therefore, it is no wonder that the online giant is looking for new
ways to handle the inevitable returns as simply and cost-effectively as
possible.

A while ago, Amazon started processing returns of unwanted items at Kohl's
department stores in California. When you clicked the return button on the
Amazon website, a QR code appeared, which you could take (either on paper or just on
your smartphone's display) to the nearest Kohl's store. Following the signs,
you were guided to a back corner of the store, where an employee accepted the
item (even without packaging) and scanned the code, and that was it.

<pic images/kohls-coupon.ps Whoever shops at Kohl's after returning an Amazon purchase will be rewarded with $10.>

Kohl's is one of these department store chains that you wonder why it still
exists, because its giant parking lots are usually empty, its sales floors
deserted, and the only grumpy employee at the only open cash register takes 10
minutes to serve 3 customers. Such a business model is actually only imaginable
under the socialist systme of the former GDR, but apparently Kohl shareholders do not value
dividends or stock price increases, and so the dilapidated company continues to
drift along. On my visit, I even received a promotional coupon for $10 for
purchases at Kohl's from the Amazon guy at the exchange counter. Not generally
averse to freebies, I looked around a bit, but given a dismal register situation,
with 10 people in line, I let the coupon expire.

Amazon recently bought the upscale supermarket chain Whole Foods in a billion
dollar deal, which is running smoothly and the employees there are so
surprisingly cheerful that I often suspect they take regular hits from a joint
in their breaks. Anyway, you can now return Amazon items at stores of the food
chain, which is huge since there is a Whole Foods about 5 minutes away from our
home in our neighborhood. It's open from 8 am to 9 pm and there is a cheerful
salesperson at the customer service counter who just takes the item to be
exchanged without packaging. QR code scanned, done. And yes, we still need milk
and sausage, let's buy those while we're here!

And, only yesterday, something even more bizarre happened to me: I had ordered a
hard drive adapter from Amazon for 6 dollars, but the part only worked
sporadically, so I started to initiate the return. As soon as I typed that the
device was faulty, Amazon offered me a "Returnless Refund": I got my money back
and didn't even have to send the part back!

@Z: Container Ship Traffic Jam on the Bay

<pic images/cont-bay-1.ps Loaded container ships stuck on the San Francisco Bay.>

<em>Angelika</em> We still go out for a walk almost every day. By now, our
walks through the city have become part of our daily routine. Since San
Francisco is famously hilly, we often have fantastic views of the city. For
months, we have now noticed that huge container ships line up in the San
Francisco-Oakland Bay, waiting to be unloaded at the Oakland port, but stuck in
traffic.  This is not a side effect of the container ship got stuck recently in
the Suez Canal, this has been going on for quite a while now.  By the way,
there is no port in San Francisco that can handle container ships, but there is
one in Oakland, which is on the other side of the bay.

The port of Oakland is considered one of the five most important ports in the
US. Back in the day, our belongings were processed there after we had moved to
the US.  So why is there ships waiting for their turn to be unloaded at the
port now? Turns out that this is also the result of the pandemic and the
complex dependencies in freight shipping. The shelves of many businesses have
to be replenished after months of closures, and suppliers to the industry need
new parts, often from Asia. During the pandemic, private consumers have made a
record number of purchases from their sofa and ordered things that are often
produced and assembled in China, such as treadmills for home use. The container
ship traffic jam is so serious that even some deliveries originally planned for
spring have not yet arrived!  Even the
<LINK>https://www.nytimes.com/2021/03/06/business/global-shipping.html|New York Times</LINK>
reported about the container backlog.

<pic images/cont-bay-2.ps Because there are a lack of harbor workers, container ships have to wait.>

At the port, there are coronavirus regulations, so loading and unloading
containers takes more time because the crew members cannot stand so close to
each other and the sick rate is higher. The problem is not limited to Oakland,
there's also a line of ships off Long Beach near Los Angeles, waiting for
permission to enter the harbor.

<pic images/cont-bay-3.ps Somewhere on these ships there are still Christmas packages for us.>

TODO

Most ships from Asia first stop in Southern California and then continue on to
Oakland after the first loading and unloading. From Oakland, it goes to Seattle
and then back to Asia. In Oakland, to make matters worse, three new giant
cranes were installed at an anchorage, which took a few weeks. Funnily enough,
we have been waiting since October last year for a Christmas package from
Germany, which is on its way by ship. Whenever we go for a walk, we always
wonder if it is on one of these big container ships. Even the big megamarket
Costco is having difficulty getting some products like Japanese whisky because
the ships are not arriving on
time.<LINK>https://www.usatoday.com/story/money/business/2021/03/10/costco-cheese-shortage-due-shipping-container-shortage/6944437002/|Delicious
imported cheese from France|Shortage of French cheese</LINK>He is hoping to get
his shelves stocked again soon, caused by the problems in shipping. Hopefully
the ship carrying the expensive cheese will be back on track soon, we don't
need a cheese disaster!

@Z: Season for Dungeness Crab

<pic images/crab-dish.ps Delicious dish made with cooked Dungeness Crab.>

<em>Michael</em> nach Deutschland kam.

I still remember clearly when I first came to Germany many many years ago.<LINK>https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dungeness_crab|A type of crab found in the Pacific Ocean, typically off the coast of the U.S. states of Washington and Oregon.</LINK>We were in wine country, up in Napa Valley, at a now defunct establishment called "Tra Vigne", and we had just managed to snag a spot at the bar. I ordered the daily special, a giant crab, along with a beer I had never heard of before, "India Pale Ale". I initially thought it came from India. Okay, folks, that was twenty years ago, nowadays everyone knows that. I clumsily fumbled with the cracker, picking the meat out of the leg shells until my fingers were all greasy. It tasted great, and since then IPA has been my favorite beer.

<pic images/crab-fishing.ps At San Francisco's "Ocean Beach" beach, many people fish for Dungeness Crab.>

And that was, as I said, over twenty years ago; nowadays a Dungeness crab in a restaurant can easily cost fifty to sixty dollars, and even if it is served whole, you can only eat the meat from the total of two sets of five legs and claws, under the center shell there is only inedible sludge and gills, and this is usually removed in the restaurant kitchen before the actual cooking so as not to affect the taste of the muscle meat. So if the guest thinks to himself after eating the legs "oho, now I'm going to the main course and take off the breastplate of the arrangement," he will be taught otherwise, because underneath, thanks to the chef's work, there is only emptiness.

The preparation is incredibly simple, you just cook them in salted water until they are completely red and brush some butter on them or serve them with butter sauce for dipping. Vietnamese restaurants like Thanh Long in San Francisco steam Dungeness Crab elaborately in their garlic kitchen, which is also super delicious, but you should not come up with the idea the next day to talk to someone within two meters in the office. Because of the magical price limit of 50 dollars, above which hardly any dish can be sold in a restaurant anymore, many restaurants have gone over to serving cheap frozen and often already cooked Dungeness Crab from God knows where, but they don't taste as fresh.

<pic images/crab-ob.ps At Ocean Beach in San Francisco, many hobby fishermen catch Dungeness Crab.>

Incidentally, whenever I say "crab" to Angelika, she corrects me because in Northern German "crab" actually means "lobster", while the Prussians call these small creatures, also known as "shrimps" or "prawns", by the term "Puhlen" (a technical term from the region). They are also very tasty, but they are a completely different culinary category. On Wikipedia, however, it says that the word "Krabbe" can also be used to refer to such ten-legged creatures as the Dungeness Crab, although this species only occurs in the North Pacific off our doorstep and not in the Atlantic, North Sea or Mediterranean.

Krabbenkochen) gemacht und dort gelernt, dass man dieKrabbe vor dem Kochen ausnehmen sollte, um den Geschmack zu verbessern.

Crabs, like all crustaceans, are very hardy and difficult to kill in humane ways. The simplest way to prepare them is therefore to throw the still living but chilled crab in boiling salt water. The sack and gills under the breastplate, however, cloud the water and thus the taste of the pure meat. Some gourmets swear by this "buttery" taste, which mainly comes from the liver of the crustacean, which has also absorbed all kinds of toxic substances from the ocean. We did a crab cooking course six years ago and learned there that you should gut the crab before cooking to improve the taste.

<pic images/crab-teal.ps Not for the faint of heart: Preparing crabs.>

With the crab splitting machine from the manufacturer "Crab Teal", which consists of only an upright, slightly sharp-edged sheet metal, the whole thing can be transferred to the professional league. The amateur cook puts the still living crab with the breastplate on top of the upright blade and then hits the back plate of the crab with the flat hand with force from above, so that the blade penetrates from below through the entrails of the crab and gives it the coup de grace. Then the two five legs are torn off with the side armor and attached armor meat, the whole thing is shaken briefly so that any entrails and gill worms that may still be attached can be poured off, and only the edible crab meat is cooked in salt water. Incidentally, it is important to salt the cooking water properly, since the crab has lived in the sea with a high salt content. Cooking in unsalted water would deprive the crab of its own salt and would result in a loss of flavor.

Asian markets in and around San Francisco sell Dungeness Crab fresh and alive during the season for about $10 per pound. They point to an aquarium with hundreds of wriggling crabs, the seller fishes out the desired ones, and packs them into a bag, where they continue to wriggle. This way they can be quickly taken home, taken out of the bag, and placed in a bucket with ice and a wet towel on top in the refrigerator. After 15 to 30 minutes the crabs are then stunned and either thrown directly into a pot of boiling water, or killed beforehand with a screwdriver or the Crab-Teal tool described above. Incidentally, live crabs are only to be handled from behind, with the thumb on top of the shell and the four remaining fingers on the underside. Anyone who makes the mistake of coming within reach of the powerful claws will soon regret it. On Youtube you can see how mean these sharp tools can pinch human fingers. Since the crab can only snap forward and to the side, the cook's fingers are safe when grabbing from behind. Gloves don't hurt either.

The name "Dungeness" comes from the town of "Dungeness" in the northern state of Washington, off whose coast the crab is found, as well as practically all along the West Coast down to the south, until the water of the ocean gets too warm somewhere near Los Angeles. To prevent the fishermen from threatening the stock, the crabs can only be caught during an annually defined season, this year running from November 7, 2020 to July 30, 2021. Only specimens measuring at least 5 3/4 inches (14.6 cm) horizontally across the carapace may be kept by the fishermen; if a smaller guy gets caught in the traps, they throw it back into the water.

<pic images/crab-snare.ps With these traps, fishermen catch Dungeness Crab.>

How do you catch these giant crabs? Professional fishermen with large boats throw large metal baskets (like in the TV show "The Deadliest Catch"), into which the crabs crawl to snack on the bait hidden inside. They can't get out again because their intelligence is not enough to open the hinged doors from the inside. On the other hand, hobby fishermen work with a regular fishing rod, on which instead of a hook hangs an arrangement of plastic loops ("crab snare"). To this is attached a bait, most often a small squid, which the fishermen buy in the bait department of a fishing shop. If the crab is now devoted to the bait, it often hopelessly entangles itself with its long legs in the loops. The fisherman then notices that something is wriggling on the rod and carefully pulls the catch ashore. The regulations stipulate that the fisherman may only keep fully grown crabs, or the specimen must be returned to the sea. Incidentally, even in lawless San Francisco, there are actually park rangers who check whether beach anglers can present the corresponding license and also look into the buckets with the caught crabs to see if they have the required minimum size.

In fishing circles, it is considered extremely uncool to catch female crabs, as they are responsible for reproduction and thus the preservation of the crab population. Females can be distinguished from males by the fact that males have a conspicuous obelisk-like pattern on the underside of their shells. In the states of Oregon and Washington, catching female crabs is even illegal; fishermen have to reluctantly throw them back into the sea if they catch them while nibbling on the bait. When the pop siren Gwen Stefani recently appeared in the newspaper with her new sweetheart, country singer Blake Shelton, and proudly presented crabs that she had caught herself in her newly found rustic style to the paparazzi, professional fishermen on the Internet immediately started grumbling, because the crab held up to the camera was a female. Ouch!

<pic images/crab-ob-many.ps At San Francisco's Ocean Beach, crab fishermen are sometimes crowded together.>

By the way, the American is careful with the plural of the word "crab". Fishermen catch "crab" and not "crabs", a dinner with crabs is a "CrabDinner" and not a "Crabs Dinner". Why? The word "Crabs" refers to the human infestation with the body louse in the English-speaking world. Those who have seen the movie "Das Boot" know that the ship's doctor has referred to this disease colloquially as "Sackratten". So don't mix them up, always use the singular, especially in the restaurant!

Greetings from the city at the (provisional) end of the lockdown
