San Francisco, 07-26-2021

@Z: Second Corona Summer

<pic images/covid-lunch.ps The first lunch in a restaurant for us after the pandemic.>

<em>Angelika</em>
Around May/June 2021, San Francisco awakened from its Sleeping Beauty state. The above
average vaccination rate in the city and surrounding county had lowered the
incidence count to one-digit values per 100,000 residents. For weeks, the
numbers were hovering under 2! Something like euphoria began to develop.
Had they indeed beaten the virus? Consequently, on June 15th, all restrictions
were lifted, and city life lovers pulled out all the stops. We saw packed
restaurants, with tables both inside and outside, and more people not wearing masks,
even while shopping at grocery stores. Only the non-vaccinated were required to wear
a mouth and nose covering.

<pic images/covid-tattoo.ps This tattoo parlor offers to ink the vaccinated with no mask requirement.>

Tourists could be seen here and there, and even Downtown San Fransico didn't
look as dystopian anymore, slowing losing its ghost town feel. I would meet
with selected friends in restaurants, after having not seen them in over a
year, and Michael started attending his regular card game one evening. Even
Michael's beloved soccer game is now happening regularily again. It is his
passion to play every Thursday and Sunday. And we finally got to dine at a
restaurant again after a long hike, a tradition we always cherished before
Corona. A collective sigh of relief ran through San Francisco and its
surrounding counties.

<pic images/covid-sweat.ps This fashion store is tired of seeing people wearing sweatpants.>

I must admit that, at first, it felt rather strange to take off the mask in
public spaces, regardless of vaccination status, especially since I'm used to
wearing it throughout the day while working at our school. Also, not everyone
was 100% sure what the mandated masking protocol actually looked like, including myself.
Store and restaurant owners put up signs to inform vaccinated customers that
wearing their mask was no longer required. Alas, no one around here checks customers
on their vaccination status at the door. I personally prefer the "trust is fine,
but control is better" doctrine, but Americans love their freedom and many see
mask mandates as some form of government control over their lives, so stores
simply hope that their customers are telling the truth.

In general, I'm rather sceptical that people are willing to take any good
advice to heart, and that's why I'm still wearing a mask when I'm inside a
store, where I don't know the vaccination status of my fellow humans. It almost
seems as if I started a trend here, as many have started wearing masks with the
recent events of the delta variant approaching, and infection numbers rising.
Even the San Francisco health department has now issued a recommendation to
that effect.

<pic images/covid-rei.ps Vaccinated customers may now enter the REI store without wearing a mask.>

Alas, the preventive measures aren't mandatory yet, unlike further south in Los
Angeles where mask requirements have returned. No surprise, as San Francisco has stunning vaccination
rates, 80% of those who are eligible have already received their first shot,
and 70% have been fully vaccinated. And yet, the delta variant is spreading
steadily. Infection rates have climbed to double digit numbers, currently
they're at 14 per 100,000 residents. But vaccination numbers are growing
slower now, even in regions with lower total vaccination rates than San
Francisco. In all of California, there's now programs in place to motivate people
to get vaccinated. They range from cash payments (50 Dollars), to free tickets to
amusement parks, to special lottery drawings for the vaccinated. They're
pulling out all the stops!

Since not everyone responds to carrots, there's also stick-based incentives.
Many universities in California (e.g. Stanford University, San Francisco State,
UC Berkeley) are mandating their students to be vaccinated. London Breed, our
mayor, announced, that all 35,000 city employees are required to get the shot.
Those who refuse are putting their job on the line. Our school also requires
staff to get the vaccine.  I support that, having worked through the past
school year in fear of getting Covid, or that the virus starts infecting our
students. By the way, we managed to get through the year without a single case
of Covid in our school, and we we've been continunally open since the fall of
2020. My students are quite excited about getting vaccinated and at the same
time sad that the vaccine hasn't been approved for their age group yet. Many
anti-vaxxers could learn a lesson from them.

@Z: Twelve Million Dollars for a House?

<pic images/houses-mayor-1.ps This house is on the market for twelve million Dollars.>

<em>Michael</em> We're regularily watching the "Tagesschau", a daily German
evening news show, and can't help but notice that it regularily shows politicians who can't
stop complaining about the high cost of housing in Germany. Laughable! Compared to
the irrationally fueled real estate market in San Francisco, houses in the most
expensive German cities like Munich are still bargains.  Granted, the bubble of
the Bay Area's and especially San Francisco's housing market has shrunk a bit
lately due to residents leaving in droves for more reasonably priced, safer,
and more competently governed cities. Lots of tech workers are no longer
required to come to the office every day and can work from anywhere, and many a coffee
shop milk foamer expert no longer sees a reason for scrounging together exorbitant rent
payments every month for a city which has hardly any entertainment options left to offer.
That brought a stop to the hyperinflation-style real estate gains recently.

<pic images/houses-mayor-2.ps This house was bought in 2006 by a recently deceased Dot-Com millionaire.>

As a side effect, instead of decrepit dumps no one in their right mind would consider
buying, there's now a whole lot of really interesting objects on the market. At
exorbitant prices, for sure, and they're apparently saturating the market
because some of them stay on the listings for months and months with no one willing to
take a bite. After all, it'll take a bored billionaire with cash to burn a whole in
their pockets to shell out ten million Dollars for such a house.

For example, there's a mysterious, dungeon-like and slightly ugly house at the
corner of 21st St and Sanches St for sale now. It once belonged to
<LINK>https://www.sfgate.com/realestate/slideshow/Liberty-Hill-mayors-mansion-for-sale-sf-220364.php|a former mayor of San Francisco</LINK>, who, according to rumors, purchased it
back in the day for his concubine. I have no trouble believing this, because although the unusually
large single family home features a vast dining hall, and plenty of bathrooms,
it orginally offered
<LINK>http://www.noevalleyvoice.com/2020/June/202006.pdf|neither a kitchen nor a garage to park a car</LINK>.

Dot-Com millionaire Frederick Roeber had purchased the house in 2008 for a whopping $4.3M Dollars.
The excentric computer nerd, who had worked at Netscape and Google in the early days of the
Internet retired in his mid-fourties, and obtained San-Francisco-wide notoriety, because he
once hoisted a <LINK>https://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/11/09/internet-pioneer-flies-nazi-flag-over-san-francisco-home-in-trump-protest|swastika flag</LINK> on the roof of his house, oddly, to protest
Donald Trump's victory in the presidential election that year. This had in turn upset a neighbor
with jewish heritage, and the whole story made the news. Of course
the Rundbrief had reported on it back in the day (<RBLINK>20161222#1</RBLINK>).

Now, Roeber unexpectedly <LINK>https://www.colmacremation.com/obituaries/Frederick-Gurney-Roeber?obId=13200720|died</LINK> in June 2020 under mysterious circumstances at the age of 52, and the somewhat
crazy house is now on the market, Roeber's heirs are asking $11.9M Dollars. This
seems a bit steep to me, but maybe a billionaire without a car who only orders takeout food
will snap it up?

<pic images/houses-zuck-1.ps Zuckerberg of Facebook fame bought this house on 21st St in 2014 for 10 Millionen Dollars.>

While we're on the topic of real estate gossip in our neighborhood: Further
down on 21st St, at the corner of Fair Oaks St, there's another building to
recently change owners, it's called "Fort Zuckerberg". People here call it that
because Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg purchased the property back in 2014 for the (at
the time) absurdly high price of 10 million Dollars (4 million over market
price). Back then, local news reported about the subsequent
<LINK>https://www.sfgate.com/bayarea/matier-ross/article/Neighbors-feeling-squeezed-by-work-on-Mark-5771069.php|year-long construction</LINK>, with angry neighbors voicing their discontent about the
non-stop construction noise and Zuckerberg's obnoxious 24/7 private security
parking and patrolling in the small and otherwise quiet residential street.
The article is worth reading, by the way, if only for the fact that the construction
included building a "wine room" and a "wet bar".

<pic images/houses-zuck-3.ps And to avoid arguing with the neighbors, he purchased the properties left ... >
<pic images/houses-zuck-2.ps ... and right of the house, and their renovations are still ongoing to date.>

In the meantime, Zuckerberg seems to have gotten tired of fighting, to simply
purchase the properties left and right of Fort Zuck as well, according to
rumors at simililarly inflated prices. Likewise, these neighboring houses
have been under construction for more than a year now, draped in plastic
covers. If you follow along with the gossip on the neighborhood forum
Nextdoor, his adjacent neighbors don't seem to mind, probably because their
own property values rose abruptly as a ripple effect of Zuck's buying spree.
Once the construction noise ceases, they can expect hardly any disruptions,
as the Zuckerbergs are practically never in town, living in Palo Alto near
the Facebook headquarters, where they purchased no less than
<LINK>https://www.nbcnews.com/businessmain/mark-zuckerberg-spends-30-million-four-homes-ensure-privacy-8C11379396|four adjacent houses</LINK> following a similar pattern.

Before you decide to plunge any money into buying an old house in San
Francisco, make sure to do your homework and study the quirky process getting
permits signed off by the city. According to home owner reports on
neighborhood forums, the process can be murky and unpredictable with
unexpected setbacks for strange reasons as far as regular Joe Homeowners are
involved, yet the rich and famous seem to know how to express-track things in
the desired direction. There's stories about home owners having trouble
obtaining permits to do simple improvements like remodel the bathroom or fix a
wooden deck. City bureaucrats seem to have the power to block any
construction, and as a proud new owner of a property you might find yourself
sitting on a protected ruin, requiring crazy amounts of money to turn into a
livable space.

No such problems seem to have impeded the construction on the corner of 21st St
and Sanchez St. According to the city register, the new owner purchased the
majestic old building there for the whopping price of 10 Million Dollars, only
to have it demolished completely soon after (Figures (#3) und (#2)).

<pic images/houses-empty-lot-before.ps (#3) Only a few days ago, an impressive old building was standing on this lot (Google Streetview).>

<pic images/houses-empty-lot.ps (#2) The new owner paid 10 million Dollars to tear it down.>

Allegedly, the old house had some structural problems, despite looking okay
from the outside. The bulldozers did a thorough job, completely flattening it,
and now there's a big empty lot leftover for a spacious new house to be built.
Word on the street is it's going to be a multi level monster house, your Noe
Valley real estate gossip guy will keep you up to date on any new developments!

@Z: Parklets as Restaurant Saviors

<pic images/parklet-bigby.ps As of recently, the city granted San Francisco restaurants permission to serve  their guests in so-called "parklets">

<em>Angelika</em> During the pandemic, San Francisco restaurants have gone
through tough times, and only as of recently, the few establishments which have
kept their doors open, are now starting to thrive again. Many old and
established restaurants had to close their doors indefinitely, there's a long
list of those. Also keep in mind, that it's actually quite difficult to
maintain a steady revenue stream for restaurant owners in San Francisco during
normal times, thanks to the competitive environment in such a culinary hotspot.
Rents have always been crazy high, and finding qualified staff quite a
challenge. Profits are generally minimal, and for a restaurant to survive,
it's basically required that they fill every last table, every night.

<pic images/parklet-lobby.ps One day, construction workers started erecting a parklet in front of our front door.>

For many months, restaurants in San Francisco were only allowed to offer
takeout an no table service. By Juni 2020, the city permitted serving guests in
outside seatings under strict hygienic restrictions. But not every restaurant
in San Francisco has outside tables. Very few do, actually, because of the
city's windy climate, and even at the end of a sunny day, come nightfall,
outside temperatures usally drop to levels too low for sitting outside.

But tough times call for tough measures and the city started to cut through
red tape and allowed restaurants to set tables on the sidewalk and even
some parking spaces in front of their property, without much bureaucratic
rigamarole. As Michael has pointed out here numerous times, cities
like San Francisco a rife with unbelievable bureaucratic overhead, and
just a few years ago it would have been unthinkable to turn parking spaces
or sidewalks into restaurant zones. Hearings, years of endless heated discussions
between car haters and residents demanding their parking spaces would have
ensued, finally resulting in an inevitable deadlock.

<pic images/parklet-table-small.ps A cozy table for two in a parklet for a romantic dinner.>
<pic images/parklet-table4.ps Even tables in parklets next to busy streets are very popular amongst diners.>

Sure enough, restaurant owners started creating new spaces outside, by cobbling
together so-called parklet structures, often crude wooden contraptions to shield
the newly set up restaurant tables from the elements and street noise. Now,
we have this hodgepodge of new spaces. Some are rather simplistic, others
feature elaborate acrylic glass structures, and space heaters for the cold
seasons. For example, the restaurant right next to our apartment building,
which had changed owners during the pandemic and reopened recently, erected
a giant parklet which is very well received by many patrons, right next
to our entrance door. People love it to dine there in the evenings, and
almost all tables are busy almost every night. Every time we set out
to commence our evening walk around the neighborhood, we're walking past
diners visibly enjoying themselves.

<pic images/parklet-24th.ps The parklet in front of our apartment building has almost every table occupied with diners of the adjacent restaurant.

Since many restaurant owners have invested substantial amounts of money into
these structures, and since restaurants have been going through tough times
lately, the city councelmen decided to continue allowing those parklets. At
first, the parklet permits were temporary, but now they're permanent, and I
think it's great, just like having those "Slow Streets" without through traffic
(<RBLINK>20200911#5</RBLINK>), which were also created during the pandemic.
Many residents want those to stay as well, and have already launched petitions
to cut them into law.

@Z: California Recalls

<pic images/recall-cox-walk.ps Newsom challenger John Cox poses with a grizzly bear.>

<em>Angelika</em>It's not as outlandish as you might think that a seated
governor gets recalled before his term is over. Remember 2003, when voters
decided that then-governor Gray Davis was to be recalled, and a new round of
elections determined that movie actor Arnold Schwarzenegger would be his
immediate successor? Now, back then that was indeed the first time something
like this had happened in California history.

Although these recalls are commonplace in California, with low barriers to
start a new one (<RBLINK>20030801#3</RBLINK>), they often fail to make it to
the actual ballot because either they didn't gather enough signatures, or the
signatures gathered can't be verified. Since the 1960ies, frustrated voters
have been threatening to recall pretty much every elected governors in office,
but so far only Davis actually was recalled.

Now, it's Gavin Newsom's turn, who is our current governor. So far, there had
been a whopping five attempts to start a recall, all unsuccessful, but on the
6th try Newsom's opponents managed to collect the required number of valid
signatures.  On September 14, 2021, all Californians will be able to vote on
whether Newsom should stay in office. I think it's all a waste of money.
According to the New York Times, the special election will cost taxpayers $276
million. In these times, we really don't need a governor who is distracted from
his work by special elections. Corona is still a threat, not to mention the
wildfires that are raging all over California again. California is also
struggling with a drought again, and we have to save water. Special elections
traditionally attract very few voters to the polls, and only mobilize those who
want to get rid of the incumbent politician.

Newsom has been in office since January 2019. He belongs to the Democratic
Party and made a name for himself as mayor of San Francisco when he allowed
same-sex couples to marry spontaneously in the town hall, even though
California had not yet allowed it (<RBLINK>20040301#1</RBLINK>). Governors in
California are elected for four years and can serve a maximum of two terms, for
a total of eight years.

Everyone knows that Newsom is planning on a carreer in Washington. Some are
speculating that he wouldn't be averse to becoming the next President. Now,
it's certainly not easy to govern California. The state is not only large, but
also populous and an economic superpower, but also plagued by natural disasters
such as fires, earthquakes, drought and water scarcity. Newsom probably
imagined his term of office to be a bit easier. So far, it has mainly been
about crisis management for him.

<pic images/newsom-french-laundry.ps The French Laundry Scandal: Governor Newsom was caught there during the lockdown at a fundraiser.>

Because of his Corona related policies, he has come under criticism from his
political opponents. California's public schools still haven't fully reopened
after more than a year of closure, and the partial lockdowns were not
universally accepted. The so-called French Laundry scandal was the tipping
point. The French Laundry is a world-famous fine dining restaurant in Napa
Valley, with its Michelin star awarded chef Thomas Keller. On November 6, 2020,
Newsom celebrated the birthday of a friend, a political lobbyist from
Sacramento, at the restaurant, and photos revealed that Newsom was not wearing
a mask and the birthday party was inside the restaurant, which was not allowed
at the time according to Newsom's own coronavirus regulations. This angered
many voters. Newsom already had a reputation as an arrogant, wealthy playboy,
and the incident seemed to confirm it.

<pic images/recall-cox-pose.ps The election campaign ads featuring the bear could have come from a Hollywood movie.>

Over 70 candidates have announced their intention to run against Newsom, most
of them from the Republican party. This includes former San Diego mayor Kevin
Faulconer, as well as San Diego businessman John Cox. And also Caitlin Jenner,
formerly known as Bruce Jenner and married to Kris Kardashian, who became
famous through the TV series "Keeping Up with the Kardashians" and winning
Olympic gold medals. John Cox stands out in particular, as he is running his
campaign with a real bear. His motto is "The Beauty and the Beast". Beauty
refers to Newsom, but here it is meant somewhat derogatorily, as a "handsome
man". He sees himself as the beast that can beat Newsom. The TV election spots
with the bear are so absurd that I always think we are in the wrong movie.
Interestingly, Newsom was married to Kimberly Guilfoyle in his first marriage,
who is a Republican party member and is now with Donald Trump Junior. Stories
like from a Hollywood movie.

@Z: Expensive Coffee and Grandma's Drip Coffee

<pic images/coffee-filter.ps We pour the hot water through Grandma's coffee filter by hand.>

<em>Michael</em> Because of Corona, we haven't gone out to eat at a restaurant
for a whole year, but one luxury we allowed ourselves at home was good coffee.
According to my research, in Germany, any average household owns a space age
technolgy coffee machine costing more than a thousand Euros a piece.  That's
been standard for at least the last 20 years.  If you don't have one, you're
considered a poor wretch. It's different here in America: the trend is going
back to the 60s, and to Grandma's coffee grinder and a porcelain filter
attachment, trendily called "V60".

<pic images/coffee-grinder.ps The Ferrari of coffee grinders.>

To grind whole roasted coffee beans, we bought the "Virtuoso+" model made by the
coffee grinder company "Baratza", which has an Italian sounding name, but
actually is American.  This model grinds the coffee consistently every time,
and won't keep grinding longer if you keep the button pressed, which is common
with cheap products. The coffee production must be reliably reproducible,
otherwise it's like playing the lottery! By the way, I was told by a trusted
resource at my employer that an employee in the coffee kitchen was observed
grinding coffee beans during his break with a hand grinder, just like Räuber
Hotzenplotz's grandma, for a whopping 10 minutes.
He must have written really elegant software afterwards!

<pic images/coffee-youtube.ps A coffee snob from England explains how to use Grandma's filter attachment correctly.>

Pouring the heated water from the kettle into the filter with the ground coffee
is not trivial. In a
<LINK>https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AI4ynXzkSQo|Youtube video|Youtube video</LINK>
about the coffee filter attachment, British coffee
expert James Hoffmann explains that for two cups, you first put 25g of coffee grinds
in the filter, then pour 100g of water, then wait 20-40 seconds while
constantly shaking the filter attachment until the coffee starts blooming, and
finally pour the remaining 350g of water while swirling. You read that right,
coffee snobs put the pot with the filter attachment on a digital scale and
measure the exact amount of water.

<pic images/coffee-beans.ps 340g of coffee beans costing a whopping 16 Dollars.>

Regarding the beans: For decades we had been drinking imported Dallmayr Prodomo
because it was gentle with both of our stomachs and still tasted good. We can
no longer tolerate darker roasts, sold in America as "French Roast," but those
aren't even popular here anymore. They were for a while, shortly after
Starbucks radically changed American coffee habits in an astonishing victory
during the 1990s. It replaced the usual dishwater that was created by brewing a
teaspoon of powder from the "Folgers" three-kilogram can and taking on a nice
malty consistency after sitting on a hot plate for hours. Today, coffee snobs
drink milder, lightly roasted varieties, recognizable by lighter beans, but
still tickling all taste buds.


Following recommendations from colleagues at work, I ordered coffee beans online from luxury roasters like <LINK>https://www.littleowlcoffee.com|Little Owl Coffee</LINK> in Denver or <LINK>https://www.vervecoffee.com|Verve Coffee</LINK>, a hipster company in San Francisco. The problem with luxury coffee is that you quickly get used to better quality and suddenly regular coffee tastes like slop from a trucker's gas station. But hey, you only live once, life's too short to drink substandard coffee!

@Z: Top Product: Mac Mini

<pic images/mmini.ps Mike's Mac Mini, bolted under his desk.>

<em>Michael</em> After a regular reader based in the Frankfurt area (name known to the editorial team) recently complained that I did not feature a
"top product" in the last issue of the newsletter, I am quickly making up for
it here. Recently, I got rid of the last two PC towers in our household and
switched to Mac Minis, which practically don't need any space because you can
drape them under the desk while the keyboard and monitor are on the desk.

<pic images/mmini-upgrade.ps Cheap manual upgrade with more memory.>

Since the memory upgrade was too expensive for me to buy new, I bought cheap
32GB RAM sticks on Amazon and installed them myself. It was a hell of a fun to
see the warranty of a newly bought computer go up in smoke! Additional disk
space was also too expensive for me, so I bought cheap SSDs, plugged them in
and secured them with a wire and two screws under the desk top. In Germany this
would be called "Pfusch" ("botch"), but here in America it's quite normal:
whatever works, as American say! By the way, the Mac Mini does have a built-in
fan, but it's absolutely silent, even when the little all-rounder is pulling
out all the stops when rendering videos. In my home office, you'll totally
forget that a computer is running and it feels like being in a monastery. Top
product!

@Z: How I Make Youtube Videos

<em>Michael</em> No doubt that Joe Sixpack can nowadays shoot videos with a cell
phone camera and then upload them to YouTube, but if you look around the
platform nowadays, you will mostly see professionally looking productions that
can compete with television documentaries. Video bloggers no longer speak into
simple webcams, but set up full frame cameras with high-quality lenses in video
mode. The sound no longer comes from a cheap headset, but from a pretty
expensive studio microphone, whose output is fed directly into a connected
computer by a digital preamplifier.

<pic images/fcp.ps This pretzel making video took quite some time to produce in Final Cut Pro.>

Audio and video are thus separate, and your main actor often needs several
attempts without too many "uhs" before getting it right, so it was worth
investing in professional grade video editing software. I got the expensive and
complicated Mac program "Final Cut Pro" at a discounted price directly from the
factory. The program is very sophisticated, but at the same time so complicated
to use that no normal person could make a 10-second video with it. Fortunately,
there are thousands of videos on YouTube about how to use the hellish program
without going crazy.

<pic images/fit-console.ps (#1) A successful video with 3,000 views.>

It is amazing, and hard to predict in advance, how well homemade videos on
YouTube will be received. Despite the elaborate production, the presentation of
my baking skills is still languishing in the two-digit views range, such as my video
on
<LINK>https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1BGGU3KeprU|baking pretzels>
or the one on making
<LINK>https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3ylQG3ig0E0|sourdough bread</LINK>.

I've had much better success on Youtube with my
<LINK>https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b1VGCrvuazs|car repair video</LINK>,
where I take apart the center console of our Honda Fit to retrieve Angelika's
earring that had slipped down there. Interested hobby car mechanics have
already viewed it three thousand times! (Figure (#1)).

<pic images/clapper.ps Lights, camera, action!>

By the way, I learned during my crash course to become a self-proclaimed video
wizard why in professional film productions, there's always an assistant with a
chalkboard that comes into the picture at the beginning of each scene, and
loudly snaps a checkered bar on it, shouting "Scene One!".  Turns out that the
video and sound of a film are usually recorded separately and then patched
together in post production. For my home videos, I often take the image of the
cell phone camera or an SLR, whose microphones only produce tinny sound. At the same
time, I have a studio microphone record the good sound and the laptop records
this to a digital audio file.

Next, a movie editor must piece the film together so that the actor puckers his
lips at exactly the moment the "o" sound is heard on the good audio track and
there is no shift, as with a bad bootleg. This is an incredibly tedious task
that you never quite get right by hand, but this is where the slate comes in: at the
beginning of the film scene, the bar visually snaps on the slate and you hear the
corresponding click sound on the audio track, also graphically represented as a
spike in the editing software - and bam!, you can move both tracks so that the
audio spike matches the image of the snapping bar. Everything else then matches
up as with an Oscar-winning Hollywood production. Of course, I immediately
bought a click slate on Amazon, it only cost 10 dollars. Funny enough, I only
found out much later that the editing software "Final Cut Pro" can
automatically synchronize a video track with bad audio with a separate audio
track recorded by microphone. Times we live in, people!

@Z: Tipping at the Supermarket soon?

<pic images/tartine.ps Why would a bakery sales clerk want to be tipped?>

<em>Michael</em> It all started in coffee shops, where "tip jars" are
ubiquitous at the checkout. It's customary that cash paying customers, even if
they receive no service for "to go" items, have been throwing their change into
the jar when they're paying for their coffee latte.  This is strange if you
think about it.  What is this "tip" for? For frothing the milk, pouring the
coffee, or ringing up the purchase?

Recently, I entered our new fancy neighborhood fish market around the corner,
bought some raw tuna and paid with a credit card, and suddenly a dialogue came
up on the terminal, asking if I wanted to give 15, 20 or 25 percent tip. Again:
What for? The employee only threw the piece of tuna I pointed to on the scale,
typed in the price, wrapped the fish, stuck the label on the packet with the
fish and then rang it up at the register. Of course, I entered "no tip",
although this seemed cold. But why should the clerk in a trendy fish store earn
more than the fish counter man at the supermarket, who does exactly the same
type of work?

If you ask around, especially in left-wing strongholds like San Francisco, it
turns out that "tip" is nowadays misconstrued as some form of donation for
low-wage earners. The millionaire techie thinks, "Oh, the coffee frother at the
coffee shop only makes $15 an hour, and I'm filthy rich, so let's throw a
dollar in the tip jar, it won't even notice it!" What the generous left lord
doesn't consider, however, is that not everyone receives crazy salaries from
technology companies shoved up their ass. What if a construction worker wants
to treat himself to a coffee, does he then pay with a tenth of his hourly wage
for a service that is already included in the purchase price? It is worth
noting that fast food restaurants like McDonald's generally forbid their
employees to set up tip jars.

What seems to be completely swept under the rug is what the tip is normally
paid for: it is an extra gratuity paid by the guest, to express that they've
felt served well at the restaurant. Admittedly, this often requires the waiter
to put in some effort, like to quickly ask guests for their wishes when they
arrive, perhaps even put on a friendly face, and maybe not chat so engaged with
the colleagues behind the counter, getting carried away, and temporarily
completely forgetting about their job and the associated tasks, including
customers who have been patiently signalling their intention to receive the
check for the last ten minutes. A guest that feels exceptionally well cared for
will add 20% tip to the bill. In San Francisco, where the typical restaurant
bill is around $100, sometimes even $200, this amounts to an extra of $20 of
$40 for the waiter per table served, whose base salary is around $20 these
days.

What motivation would a waiter have to work a bit harder if the tip was set at
a fixed rate of 20% as an added charge to the bill, as some restaurants in San
Francisco have already tried? A natural reaction would be to lower the service
to the level offered in restaurants in East Germany many years ago. Every
restaurant in San Francisco I know that has tried this experiment had to
eventually go back to the old system, as customers felt cheated. And rightfully
so, it's best to avoid such eccentric places and instead support those
restaurants with traditional work ethic.

Another interesting question would be why, for example, a coffee frother in a
trendy cafe is rewarded with a tip for their work, while a supermarket cashier
is left out of this massive money shower. Wouldn't a supermarket cashier be
happy to receive a $15 tip if they checked out a shopping cart with a $100
worth of goods? Or a postman, carrying an Amazon package worth $100, why
doesn't he get a $15 tip as a reward? By the way, I worked as a postman many,
many years ago and it was not uncommon that someone would slip me a tenner or
something. I was always very pleased then, and I didn't interpret it as some
form of mandatory levy, but rather as an incentive to next time maybe not
crumple the envelope with the glossy calendar into the overflowing mailbox, but
instead to ring the doorbell and hand over the valuable piece, despite the loss
of time. Money rules the world.

Greetings:

Angelika und Michael
