San Francisco, 11-01-2021

@Z: Coyotes at close distance

<pic images/coyotes-look.ps (#1) In the evening light, two coyotes are wandering across a cow pasture at Point Reyes.>

<em>Michael</em> We have plenty of wild animals here in America, travelers of
the numerous national and state parks often report sightings of bears, cougars,
buffalo and much more. However, lately there have been reports of wild animals
entering even urban areas, and San Francisco and the surrounding Bay Area are
no exception.

<pic images/coyote-playground.ps At the edge of the playing field in St. Mary's Park, coyotes are coming out of the bushes.>
<pic images/coyotes-sign.ps A warning sign to remind owners not to let their dog run free.>

At our Sunday old-timers' soccer game in the Bernal Heights neighborhood, for
example, the playing field borders an area with tall bushes where a coyote
family lives. Warning signs at the entrance of the athletic field remind
visitors of the wild inhabitants and recommend that dogs be kept on a leash and
are not allowed to run free. And indeed, when the weather is sunny, the coyotes
often come out and we can see them rollicking at the edge of the field with
their young.

<pic images/coyote-cat.ps (#2) A resident in our neighborhood saw a coyote eating a house cat.>

Unlike wild cats such as mountain lions, coyotes do not attack humans, unless
they feel directly threatened. They are wild dogs, but they are quite shy and
do not just come up to people. It would be interesting to see what happenes if
a stray soccer ball would accidentally land near the coyotes, I cannot say what
would happen in such a case.  Retrieving the ball would require some courage
and would have to be done without making any sudden movements.

<pic images/coyote-st-marys-at-sign.ps When the weather is sunny, a coyote sometimes comes out to the edge of our soccer field.>

Pets should not be left near coyotes, as they may be foolish enough to provoke
the wild dogs, and that can quickly go wrong. Recently, a resident on the
online forum Nextdoor reported that while walking in our neighborhood, they
observed a coyote eating a calico cat (Figure #2). So be careful!

<pic images/coyote-trail.ps It's not unusual on hiking trails California to see coyotes.>

When we went for a walk on Labor Day weekend during our short vacation in Point
Reyes, about 40 miles north of us, we first came across a herd of cows grazing
freely and then saw two full-grown coyotes peacefully trotting through the herd
in the bright evening light (Figure (#1)). The cows didn't seem to mind
either, so we just kept taking pictures from about 50 yards away. The animals
seemed to be used to each other, yes, it looked like they simply met up every
evening.

@Z: Recalls Galore

<pic images/boudin-wiki.ps San Francisco's District Attorney Chesa Boudin is facing a recall.>

<em>Angelika</em> Our Governor Newsom narrowly escaped a recall recently. Nearly
62% of California voters voted "no" on September 14th to his removal. The
majority of the population probably did not want a political change in these
turbulent times. However, there are still a few other eagerly awaited recall
proceedings pending in San Francisco. Our District Attorney Chesa Boudin will
most likely also have to face a recall procedure. The necessary signatures were
submitted by the end of October and are now awaiting verification from the
relevant authority.

Boudin is a highly controversial person in our city. He has fanatic followers,
but also just as many opponents who would like to drive him out of town. In the
US, prosecutors are elected by the people, which may seem particularly
democratic at first glance, but it has its pitfalls. This means that aspiring
prosecutors have to campaign and, under certain circumstances, promise change
in order to win voter votes that may later backfire when they're actually
in office. There is also a tendency in the US to appoint flashy personalities
to important positions without thoroughly thinking about whether these people
are qualified for the position. For example, Boudin was a public defender, so
he had experience in defending defendants, but not in prosecuting them.

<pic images/sf-burglaries.ps Burglaries in San Francisco have increased significantly during Boudin's term.>

Anyone who has ever seen a typical American courtroom TV series like "Law and
Order" knows that investigating police work closely with the prosecutor's
office to bring about an indictment, while the defense attorney represents the
interests of the accused. Boudin, in a sense, switched sides, but that's not
quite right either. Boudin wants to achieve reforms in the American criminal
justice system and sees the position of prosecutor as more suitable for this
than that of the defense attorney. He belongs to the group of
so-called progressive prosecutors, which are currently en vogue in larger
cities such as Chicago (Kim Foxx), Philadelphia (Larry Krasner) and Los Angeles
(George Gascon). By the way, George Gascon was Boudin's predecessor before
the former ran off to southern California under public pressure before the end
of his term.

No one disputes that the American criminal justice system, with its overcrowded
prisons, high rate of wrongful convictions, and sometimes draconian
punishments, is in need of reform. But how to achieve sensible reforms that are
fair and don't lead to the reverse effect of rising crime statistics is a
matter of much debate. In any case, Chesa Boudin's reform campaign in the
liberal city of San Francisco received the necessary votes in the November 2019
election and he has been in office since January 2020. He won by only a 3000-vote
margin, to the dismay of the police union, against their favorite Suzy Loftus.

<pic images/recall.ps A resident demands to recall the city's district attorney.>

Boudin's life story is quite interesting. Both of his parents spent years in
prison due to their involvement in the left-wing radical group "Weather
Underground" which was founded at the University of Michigan in the late 1960s.
During a robbery of a money transporter, in which members of the group and
Boudin's parents were involved, two police officers and a security guard lost
their lives. Boudin's mother received a prison sentence of 20 years, while his
father's sentence was set to a minimum of 75 years. However, recently, the
outgoing Governor of New York, Andrew Cuomo, allowed for a hearing to be held
for Boudin's father, David Gilbert, to discuss his early release on parole.
Last week, the responsible committee gave its approval. At the end of November,
he will be released on parole after 40 years in prison. Boudin was only 14
months old when his parents were arrested. He was then raised by the couple
Bill Ayres and Bernardine Dohm, who were also close to the "Weather Underground
Organization". Boudin can't be held responsible for the crimes of his parents,
but the experience shaped him greatly. He often talks in interviews about what
it was like for him as a child to visit his parents in prison.

<pic images/boudin-burglary.ps This San Francisco resident reports two burglars in his apartment, which district attorney Boudin simply let go.>

Boudin has come under criticism in San Francisco mainly because he is very
lenient with repeat offenders and often is not willing to prosecute them,
instead letting them off with probation. This has led to several tragic deaths.
For example, at the end of December 2020, the multiple-convicted Troy Ramon
McAlister killed two pedestrians when he was driving a stolen car, running them
over at an intersection. He had been arrested in November and December for auto
theft and drug offenses, but was immediately released, despite three prior
convictions before 2015. Meanwhile, several prosecutors who worked for Boudin
have thrown in the towel and also campaigned to start an impeachment procedure
against their former boss. A judge in San Francisco also publicly expressed his
dissatisfaction and in particular criticized the chaos under Boudin and the
lack of willingness to do his job and prosecute criminals.

<pic images/door-sign.ps Since thieves go unpunished, package theft has become a real problem..>

Many people in San Francisco are now fed up with how casually the crime
prevention official is dealing with crimes such as home and car break-ins, as
well as shoplifting. These crimes have increased exponentially in San
Francisco. Shoplifting is now so widespread here that supermarkets like Safeway
are shortening their opening hours in the evening or drugstores like Walgreens
are closing several branches after the shelves are emptied by thieves several
times a day. Fairly, it must be mentioned that this situation is also related
to the so-called Proposition 47. The voters in California voted in 2014 that
theft of goods worth less than $950 is only to be considered a minor offense
("misdemeanor") (<RBLINK>20160618#3</RBLINK>) and even reform-resistant repeat
offenders do not have to go to prison.

<pic images/chesa-sign-window.ps Occasionally, one can still see stubborn supporters of the soon-to-be-dismissed District Attorney.>

If it comes to the removal of Boudin, it is not the voter who will determine
who will be the new district attorney, but our mayor London Breed will appoint
a new district attorney of her choice, who will then take over the
responsibility of the removed DA until the end of their term.

And that's not all. In the next newsletter I will report on who is to be
removed from the school board in San Francisco. You see, things are quite
lively around here!

@Z: USA to Germany and Back, In Times of Corona

<pic images/lh-2.ps A completely empty flight from San Francisco to Munich.>

<em>Michael</em>Since we have had the dubious pleasure of flying back and forth
between the US and Germany several times in the last few months, I wanted to
quickly explain what bureaucratic hurdles have to be overcome nowadays due to
Corona.

Anyone flying from the US to Germany currently must present an immunization
certificate to the airline before departure. Additionally, German customs
requires registration <LINK>https://einreiseanmeldung.de|einreiseanmeldung.de|here</LINK>.
The traveler must present a printed document upon entry. During the
10-12 hour flight, the traveler must wear a mask the entire time. Medical masks
are allowed, and some airlines even allow cloth masks. The mask can be removed
while eating or drinking. Different airlines enforce this differently,
Lufthansa is very strict while United is more lax.

In the opposite direction, from Germany to the USA, the Americans require the
airlines to have passengers carry a printed or photographed copy of a negative
result from a Corona rapid test on their phone, no older than three days. The
time does not matter, so if the test was taken on Monday morning at nine
o'clock, one can still fly on Thursday evening with it. The test can be booked
relatively easily at pharmacies and test centers in Germany and is usually the
only patient -- since the test costs real money, practically nobody does it in
Germany anymore.

<pic images/lh-3.ps Flying in times of Corona requires nerves of steel.>

At German airports, there have been sporadic gate changes and hours of delays
lately due to additional security checks, because passengers can't reach their
gate on time. At Munich Airport, passengers going to San Francisco recently had
to wait in line for over an hour before they were allowed to the gate to the
USA. So it's important to stay calm. If the other people in the line are also
on the same flight, the pilot will wait until everyone is on board, no matter
how late it gets.

<pic images/lh-1.ps Depending on the flight time, good deals can be found under certain circumstances.>

Partially the flights are almost empty. I was recently on a Lufthansa flight
with maybe 50 passengers, and that in an Airbus 350-900, which holds 350
people. With fuller flights, Premium Economy and Business are sometimes
practically fully booked, while budget airlines in Economy can stretch out over
three rows, and even passengers from the more expensive areas can scurry to the
back to get some sleep lying down in completely empty rows. But that doesn't
always work, it really depends on how realistic the flight lands at the
destination. If no normal person (who cares about wasted vacation days or
business meetings) would book such a flight, then the chances are high to land
a super deal with a seat in the wooden class. With the easing of travel
restrictions and the start of the holidays in Germany, the flights will soon be
fully booked again. Good luck anyway!

@Z: Packages on an endless journey

<pic images/package-late.ps This parcel from Germany was almost 12 months on its way to San Francisco.>

<em>Angelika</em> Nowadays everyone is talking about the pandemic-related
supply chain problems and we have already written about the container ships
that are stuck in sea traffic. At that time we also reported that we were still
waiting for a Christmas package from Michael's sister, which she had sent by
ship (<RBLINK>20210425#4</RBLINK>). It should be noted that the package started
its journey at the end of October 2020 when it was dropped off at the post
office in Augsburg.

We all thought it had been lost. But lo and behold, just over a year later, in
September 2021, our faithful postman Jose delivered it. He could hardly believe
it when Michael told him that the package had been on the road for so long, as
it was neither damaged nor opened by customs. The address was also clearly
readable. We then wondered what the post office had done with the package and
what adventures the package had experienced on its long journey. According to
the DHL tracking number, the package had not even been handed in to the post
office yet. In any case, we were very happy when it arrived.

<pic images/container.ps Container ships are waiting to be unloaded in San Francisco Bay.>

Coronavirus is now often used as an excuse for why many things don't work or
don't go as planned. I have a particular bone to pick with the German Post, as
they are charging a hefty surcharge on goods sent by airmail to the USA. Normal
letters are exempt from the surcharge, but if you want to send a package by
airmail, there is only the option up to 5 kg, which then costs over 50 euros in
postage.

Although there is the option to send small packages and parcels by ship without
the surcharge, it can take up to a year, as you now know. Furthermore, this is
only possible if the customer arranges the postage online, which is okay if the
customer is told this. Unfortunately, this is not always the case, or it is
promised at the counter that the air package will arrive within 14 days at the
latest, which is why the customer pays more so that the package is transported
faster. However, according to our personal experience, this is not the case.
Six to eight weeks of running time was more standard last year for packages
from Germany to the USA by airmail.

Sure, one understands that in a worldwide pandemic everything takes longer, but
then the customer should not be asked to pay extra at the checkout.
Incidentally, the US Postal Service does not charge such a surcharge for
parcels and packages from the USA to Germany, and the delivery times are much
shorter. It's not entirely understandable, but one blames the other.

TODO

@Z: Unser Herbst mit Corona

<pic images/vax-dubliner.ps Die irische Kneipe um die Ecke lässt nur Gäste mit Impfung rein.>

<em>Angelika</em>
Als nach dem Sommer der Herbst ins Land zog, erließ San Francisco einige
verwirrende Maskenbestimmungen. Laut letztem Rundbrief waren Masken für
Geimpfte in Innenräumen ja empfohlen, aber noch nicht wieder verpflichtend
(<RBLINK>20210726#1</RBLINK>). Das änderte sich allerdings am 3. August. Egal
ob geimpft oder ungeimpft, es galt Maske auf in allen öffentlichen Innenräumen, wie
in Supermärkten, Museen, Kirchen und Fitnessstudios. Am 15. Oktober wurde
diese Vorschrift jedoch wieder gelockert. Ist man geimpft, braucht man in San
Francisco im Büro, im Gottesdienst, im Fitnesscenter oder während anderer
Zusammenkünfte keine Maske zu tragen. Allerdings nur, falls der Impfstatus am
Eingang kontrolliert wird. In Schulen, öffentlichen Verkehrsmitteln,
Geschäften, Arztpraxen und Krankenhäusern herrscht weiterhin Maskenpflicht.
Desweiteren gilt seit dem 20. August in San Francisco, dass nur Geimpften der
Besuch der Innenräume von Bars, Restaurants, Fitnessstudios und Museen erlaubt
ist. Bescheinigungen werden am Eingang geprüft. Ein negativer Coronatest
genügt nicht mehr, um Einlass zu erhalten. Kinder unter 12 sind von dieser Regel
ausgenommen, da sie noch nicht geimpft werden können. 

<pic images/vax-digbys.ps Das Restaurant in unserer Straße bewirtet nur geimpfte Gäste.>

Auch die Diskussion um die Covid-Auffrischimpfung lief aus dem Ruder,
nachdem Präsident Biden ohne Absprache mit seinen zuständigen Behörden
vorgeprescht war und jedem den sogenannten "Booster" im Herbst versprach. Das
verärgerte viele Wissenschaftler, da die Datenlage noch nicht eindeutig war
bezüglich einer Auffrischimpfung. Mittlerweile gelten die folgenden
Empfehlungen in den USA: Alle, die über 65 Jahre alt sind,  sollten den
Booster erhalten. Gleiches git für über 18-jährige, die mit Risikofaktoren
wie Krebs, Diabetes und chronischen Erkrankungen der Leber, der Nieren, der
Lunge oder des Herzens leben, sowie diejenigen, die aus anderen Gründen ein angeschlagenes
Immunsystem haben. Die dritte Booster-Gruppe ist die der über 18-Jährigen, die in
Berufen arbeiten, bei denen sie einem erhöhten Covidrisiko ausgesetzt
sind, weil sie auf viele Menschen (auch ungeimpfte) bei der Arbeit treffen.
Das gilt für Lehrer, Polizisten, Feuerwehrleute, Postbeamte, Busfahrer
oder Angestellte in Restaurants und Supermärkten. In diese dritte
Kategorie falle ich, und ich habe bereits einen Termin für den dritten
Pieks ausgemacht. Ich werde dann davon berichten. Mittlerweile dürfen für den
"Booster" übrigens auch verschiedene Impfstoffe kombiniert werden, womöglich
bald nach dem Motto: "Welchen Impfstoff hätten Sie denn heute gerne?".

@Z: Baustelle "Ocean Beach"

<pic images/ob-sand-sign.ps (#3) Die beauftragte Baufirma kündigt am Stadtstrand "Ocean Beach" eine Sandumlagerung an.>

<em>Michael</em> Unser Stadtstrand zur Pazifikseite ist ja berühmt-berüchtigt.
Am sogenannten "Ocean Beach" kann jedermann kostenlos meilenweit spazierengehen
und die atemraubende Aussicht genießen. Wanderer sehen dabei allerhand
Meeresgetier, wie Albatrosse, Delfine, Robben oder Wale. Der Strand zieht sich
ewig, von San Franciscos mittlerweile geschlossenem Cliff-House im Norden bis
runter in den Vorort Daly City. Bei Stürmen im Winter brechen vor der Küste 10
Meter hohe Monsterwellen, die selbst die verwegensten Surfer meiden, an warmen
Sommertagen hören Spaziergänger nur Geplätscher, und Lustwandler genießen
sagenhafte Sonnenuntergänge. Wir spazieren dort ein paarmal im Monat, und sind
sicher schon tausend Meilen abgeschritten.

<pic images/ob-sand-before.ps Vorher: Felsen und viel Platz bis zur Wasserline.>

Allerdings holt sich der kalte und tückische Ozean jedes Jahr ein paar
Leichtsinnige, die sich, oft alkoholisiert, zu nah ans Wasser wagen, und dann
von plötzlichen "Sneaker Waves" gepackt und hineingezerrt werden. Ohne Wetsuit
ist dann wegen des kalten Wassers nach wenigen Minuten "Game Over", denn die
Muskeln versagen den Dienst und selbst wer sonst gut schwimmt sackt ab und
ertrinkt. Ich bin schon mal dort gesurft, muss aber sagen, dass ich das
Anfängern nur bei Babywellen raten würde, und die enorme Strömung, die einen je
nach Tageszeit Richtung Bay hochzieht oder nach Süden wegschwemmt, erfordert
gute Handpaddeltechnik auf dem Board, eine trainierte Rückenmuskulatur -- und
Nerven wie Drahtseile.

<pic images/ob-sand-after-1.ps Nachher: Neu aufgeschichteter Sand als Todesfalle für nichtsahnende Touristen.>

Der Strand grenzt an die Uferstraße "Great Highway", dessen Befestigung, wie schon einmal berichtet
(<RBLINK>20120801#8</RBLINK>), teilweise aus alten Grabsteinen des ehemaligen Stadtfriedhofs von
San Francisco besteht. Im Laufe der Jahre hat sich der Ozean aber nun immer mehr Sand vom Strand
einverleibt, sodass die Stadtväter wohl Angst bekamen, dass er auch die Straßenbefestigung
wegspülen könnte. Kurzer Hand starteten sie ein Bauprojekt, das mit Hilfe einer im Ozean
verankerten Barke Sand auf den Strand pumpte, um diesen dort mit schweren Baumaschinen 
aufzuschütten (Abbildung (#3)).

<pic images/ob-sand-construction.ps Während der Bauarbeiten war der Strand gesperrt.>

Gesagt, getan! Nach einigen Monaten Bauzeit steht nun eine zwei bis drei Meter
hohe Sandschicht zwischen den an den Strand schlagenden Wellen des Ozeans und
der Befestigung der Uferstraße. Was die Bauherren aber anscheinend außer Acht
gelassen haben, ist, dass bei auflaufendem Wasser für Spaziergänger zwischen
der Sandmauer und dem Wasser eine sehr schmale Todeszone entsteht, aus der es
kein leichtes Entrinnen gibt, niemand kann schließlich eine Sandmauer
hochklettern. Wir sind neulich dort bei 3/4-Flut spazieren gegangen und wären
beinahe schon von den hochkriechenden Wellenausläufern naß geworden. Bei einer
hohen Flut sage ich voraus, dass es brenzlig wird. Hoffentlich schreitet das
weiter nördlich stationierte Rettungspersonal im Notfall rechtzeitig ein.

@Z: Abzocke am Flughafen: 8 Dollar für einen Gepäckwagen

<pic images/smarte-carte-1.ps Der Flughafen von San Francisco nimmt allen Ernstes acht Dollar für einen Gepäckwagen.>

<em>Michael</em> Immer wenn wir aus Deutschland kommend nach San Francisco
zurückfliegen, reisen wir mit schwerem Gepäck. Oft sind das vier große Taschen,
vollgepfropft und sorgfältig austariert, bis das Maximalgewicht erreicht ist.
Nach der Landung und dem anschließenden Aufnehmen des Gepäcks vom Fließband
stellt sich allerdings dann das Problem, die Koffer circa 500 Meter weit (und
im Aufzug hoch) zur Taxihaltestelle zu bugsieren. Jeder Flughafen dieser Welt
hält für seine Fluggäste hierfür Gepäckkarren vor, an beliebten Umsteigepunkten
auch gern gegen ein geringes Entgelt, in Frankfurt zum Beispiel kostet das
Ausleihen des Karrens einen Euro.

<pic images/smarte-carte-2.ps Für jeden dieser Wagen hat ein Fluggast für zehn Minuten Benutzung acht Dollar hingeblättert.>

Dies war bis vor kurzem auch am SFO, dem internationalen Flughafen von San
Francisco so, nur dachte sich die Karrenbetreiberfirma "Smarte Carte" dort
offenbar: "Warum nicht mal kräftig abkassieren und den Preis in die Höhe
schrauben, was wollen die Fluggäste denn sonst machen, vielleicht ihr Gepäck
tragen?!" und in meiner Fantasie brechen die verhärmten Gestalten der
Vorstandsetage im Sitzungsaal daraufhin in schallendes böses Gelächter aus,
ähnlich wie die Schergen von Dr. Evil im Film "Austin Powers".

Gut, man könnte natürlich weniger Gepäck mitführen, und pro Person einfach
einen Rollkoffer rollen, aber wer wie wir gern einkauft, hat diese Option
leider nicht. Ganz so wie ein offensichtlich aus Großbritannien stammender
Herr, der, mühevoll drei Koffer ohne Gepäckwagen im Aufzug nach oben zum
Taxistand balancierend, mir zuraunte: "I can't believe they're taking 8 Dollars
for a cart!" und ich musste ihm mit "Yep, it's ridiculous!" zustimmen. Denn von
den 8 Dollars bekommt der Fluggast exakt Null Dollar zurück, wenn er den Karren
wieder abgibt. Ein Laufjunge der Firma sammelt die Wagen wieder ein, bringt sie
zurück zum Automaten und pro Karren gehen 8 Dollar an die Betreiberfirma von
Dr. Evil. Aber offensichtlich steht der Bürgermeisterin von San Francisco,
London Breed, nicht der Sinn danach, dafür zu sorgen, dass sich ankommende
Touristen nicht schon am Flughafen über die unhaltbaren Zustände an ihrem
Urlaubsziel ärgern. Dazu bietet ihnen die alptraumhaft heruntergekommene
Innenstadt später schließlich Gründe genug!

@Z: Toppprodukt: Atul Gawande "Sterblich sein"

<pic images/mortal.ps Das Buch "Being Mortal" von Atul Gawande>

<em>Angelika</em> Eigentlich ist Michael ja immer die Rubrik des Toppprodukts
vorbehalten, aber heute bin ich einmal dran. Ich lese ja für mein Leben gern
und habe eines der besten Sachbücher, das ich seit langem gelesen habe, diesen
Monat verschlungen. Der amerikanische Arzt Atul Gewande beschäftigt sich in
seinem Werk "Being Mortal" (deutscher Titel: "Sterblich sein") mit dem Sterben
und wie die moderne Medizin kläglich versagt, diesen Prozess würdevoll zu
begleiten. Es geht darum, was am Ende eines Lebens wirklich zählt. Anhand
vieler persönlicher Geschichten (u.a. die seines eigenen Vaters) stellt
Gewande dar, wie oft am Menschen vorbei therapiert und behandelt wird und sucht
nach Auswegen dieser Misere. Unbedingt zu empfehlen!

@Z: Als Hobo mit dem Frachtzug reisen

<pic images/stobe-jump.ps Stobe springt auf einen fahrenden Frachtzug auf.>

<em>Michael</em> Aus amerikanischen Wildwestfilmen kennt man ja die Szenen, in
denen Mittellose in leeren Güterzugwaggons mit der Eisenbahn quer durch halb
Amerika fahren. Kilometerlange Züge mit hunderten von Waggons zuckeln hier
teilweise mit nur 10 oder 20 km/h durch die endlose Prärie, und oft
ist auf einem Wagen keine Fracht oder in einem leeren Viehwagon noch Platz für
einen anspruchslosen Fahrgast. Gegen Ende des 19. Jahrhunderts nutzten vor
allem fahrende Landstreicher, sogenannte
<LINK>https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hobo|Hobos</LINK>, diese kostenlose,
wenngleich weder bequeme noch ganz ungefährliche Art des Personentransportes.
Zwar versucht die Bahnpolizei durch Präsenz in den Verladestationen,
unautorisierte Fahrgäste vom Mitfahren abzuhalten, aber da die Züge teilweise
nur Schleichtempo fahren, springen Hobos oft einfach auf offener Strecke auf
die fahrenden Waggons auf.

Auch heute ist das Mitfahren auf Güterzügen, das sogenannte
<LINK>https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Freighthopping|Freighthopping</LINK>,
selbstverständlich strengstens untersagt. Die Bahnpolizei wacht sorgfältig
darüber, dass sich niemand in die teilweise festungsartig gesicherten
Verladestationen für Güterzüge einschleicht. Aber ein paar verwegene Gestalten
wagen das Abenteuer auch heute noch. So zum Beispiel die Youtube-Persönlichkeit
"Stobe the Hobo", der nicht nur ganz Amerika in Güterzügen abgefahren hat,
sondern auch noch in hinreißenden Videos auf Youtube darüber berichtet.
In denen sieht man Güterzüge im prallen Sonnenschein langsam durch die endlosen Weiten
des Landes rauschen, während der Protagonist sich selbst und
seinen Kumpel "Wingman" dabei abfilmt, wie sie in den offenen Waggons campieren
und die Fahrt genießen.

<pic images/stobe-sit.ps Dass das nur die Eisenbahnpolizei nicht sieht!>

Die Videos untermalt Stobe mit selbstgespielter Klaviermusik, meist klassische
Interpretationen örtlicher Rock-Bands. In einer Episode im Nordwesten
bei Seattle spielte er zum Beispiel Stücke von Nirvana, einmal habe ich das
Werk "Heathens" der Band "Twentyone Pilots" erkannt. Das Ganze ist so heiter
und gleichzeitig so beruhigend aufgemacht, dass mancher in den
Youtube-Kommentaren schon eingeräumt hat, die Videos als Einschlafhilfe zu
gebrauchen. Als Einstiegsdroge empfehle ich euch die
<LINK>https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LtIlIF-Wkag|Episode "The Pacific Northwest"</LINK>,
und ich garantiere euch, dass ihr anschließend nicht mehr aufhören könnt,
bis ihr mehrere Dutzend Folgen gesehen habt.

<pic images/stobe-beer.ps "Stobe the Hobo" in Wartestellung, billiges Dosenbier trinkend.>

Da die Güterzüge nach einem geheimen Fahrplan fahren, den nur die Eisenbahner
kennen, muss der Hobo allerdings oft stundenlang, manchmal sogar tagelang in
der Nähe von Streckenkreuzungen abhängen, bis sich wieder eine Gelegenheit zum
Mitfahren in die gewünschte Richtung bietet. "Stobe the Hobo", oder James
Stobie, wie er mit bürgerlichem Namen heißt, campt dann als Obdachloser unter
Brücken, und geht regelmäßig seiner Obsession, dem Erwerb von Unmengen billigen
Biers in den lokalen Supermärkten nach. Seine erklärten Feinde sind übrigens
die nerdigen Eisenbahn-Freaks, sogenannte
<LINK>https://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=Foamer|Foamer</LINK>,
die, in Ausübung ihres erklärten Hobbies, den ganzen Tag mit umgeschnalltem
Fotoapparat an Bahnstrecken abhängen, Züge ablichten und Hobos bei der
Eisenbahngesellschaft verpfeifen, falls sie einen bei der Ausübung illegaler
Aktivitäten entdecken.

<pic images/stobe-train.ps Stobe the Hobo in seinem Element auf einem Güterzug.>

Dass das Aufspringen auf fahrende Güterzüge tatsächlich lebensgefährlich ist, 
musste "Stobe the Hobo" übrigens leider am eigenen Leib erfahren: Im Jahre 2017 kam er
<LINK>https://www.dailydot.com/upstream/stobe-the-hobo-dath/|bei einem Bahnunfall ums Leben|Stobes tödlicher Unfall</LINK>.
Das traurige Ende eines großen Mannes, aber in seinen Youtube-Videos wird er ewig
weiterleben. Peace out!

Grüße aus den unendlichen Weiten des Landes:

Angelika und Michael
