San Francisco, 12-22-2021

@Z: Corona Winter

<pic images/walgreens-line.ps In the pharmacy window at the Walgreens drugstore, people willing to get a booster shot are lining up.>

<em>Angelika</em> The hope for a Christmas without COVID-19 in San Francisco
has unfortunately not come true. Although the number of new infections is
still relatively low, it is steadily increasing in San Francisco due to the
Omicron variant. Currently, we have an average of 11 new cases per 100,000
residents in the city. Since the willingness to get vaccinated in San Francisco
and the surrounding area is very high, many people are also getting the booster
shot. It is now available for all age groups in the USA from the age of 16.

The responsible American health authority, the CDC (Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention), recommends a 6-month interval for the Biontech/Pfizer and
Moderna vaccines between the completion of the initial two-dose vaccination and
the booster. Michael and I have both already received our booster shots. We
simply booked an appointment at the drugstore chain "Walgreens" and, just like
that, got the third shot in the arm. The whole process went relatively
smoothly. We each made an appointment through the Walgreens website. For this,
we only had to provide our name, address, and date of birth.

It was also asked when we received the first and second vaccination and with
which vaccine. Then we could choose appointments. Although the CDC allows
mixing vaccines, the Walgreens website only offered appointments with the same
vaccine. That was fine with us. I went to the Walgreens around the corner from
us, as they had Pfizer/Biontech. Michael had to go a bit further to the
Walgreens in the Castro district. Before the vaccination, we had to fill out a
form that asked about allergies and current Covid symptoms, and finally
required a signature.

Our health insurance, by the way, fully covers the vaccination. If you don't
have health insurance, the vaccination is still free of charge. The booster
vaccination was then recorded in our official white CCD vaccination card. The
card is in paper format and resembles an index card. After the booster
vaccination, we both had mild symptoms, similar to those after the second
initial vaccination series. I felt weak and exhausted. Michael had a slight
cough and a headache. However, the symptoms disappeared after a day. In San
Francisco, by mid-December, 68% of those over 65 had received the booster, 50%
of those aged 50-64, 44% of those aged 35-49, and 29% of those aged
16-34 (<LINK>https://sf.gov/information/updated-data-san-francisco-residents-have-received-covid-19-vaccine-booster-dose|Official Statistics | Vaccination Statistics San Francisco</LINK>).

Even at our school, the vaccination of children is progressing diligently.
Almost everyone is already fully vaccinated. My students were very happy that
it was finally their turn. I really hope for their sake that there won't be new
restrictions again because of Omicron.

@Z: Doctor's notes now viewable

<pic images/21cca.ps Patients are now able to read doctor's notes after a visit.>

<em>Angelika</em> Recently, I had a routine check-up with my gynecologist and
was quite surprised when I could read her notes from our conversation online on
the patient portal afterwards. At first, I thought she might have pressed the
wrong button, because normally I didn't have access to these notes. Usually, I
can only view prescriptions, lab reports, etc. through the portal, or contact
my doctor via email or make appointments.

I didn't think much about it and forgot the whole thing until a few weeks ago
when I was at the eye doctor, who then sent me a link so I could register on
his very own patient portal to view his notes about my visit. Hmm, I thought to
myself, this must be a new law and asked around about it. And indeed, the new
so-called "21st Century Cures Act," passed in 2018, contains a provision that
prohibits doctors from withholding electronically recorded notes from the
patient.

Since nowadays almost every doctor types their conversation notes directly into
a computer or tablet, these notes must now also be made available to the
patient since April of this year. I find this commendable because, after all,
it concerns the patient. I wonder how many doctors are now more mindful of their
choice of words. There are already suggestions on the internet on how to phrase
certain things more neutrally rather than judgmentally. A common expression
among medical professionals, according to relevant forums, is "Poor Historian"
when a patient cannot remember details about their health. The alternative
suggestion is: "Cannot recall." Although "Poor Historian" is much funnier.

@Z: First Defund, then Refund the Police

<pic images/defund.ps A hippie millionaire wanted to defund the police in 2020. In the meantime, the sign has disappeared.>

<em>Michael</em> As newsletter readers, you know that San Francisco has
recently been struggling to get a grip on its skyrocketing crime rate. No one
with a modicum of sanity doubts that the astronomical increase in car and home
burglaries in San Francisco is due to the fact that perpetrators know they will
go unpunished. District Attorney Boudin, who, following a completely broken
political ideology, refuses to press charges even in cases with clear evidence,
blames the police for allegedly not arresting enough thieves. However, the
police blame Boudin, who immediately releases arrested criminals.

To make
matters worse, Boudin brazenly claims in press conferences that the number of
burglaries is declining, which is naturally because no citizen wastes their
time sitting around at the police station to report a burglary. But when the
upscale Louis Vuitton store in the city center was recently looted in broad
daylight by an organized mob, <LINK>https://abc7news.com/louis-vuitton-looted-union-square-robbery-san-francisco/11256032/|videos of it|Mob loots Louis Vuitton</LINK>were circulating on Twitter and traditional news outlets.

As the news flashed around the world, Boudin was scared stiff. He promised on
television to prosecute the looters, which actually happened in nine cases, but
for the past four weeks, there has been dead silence in the press about what
became of it. It is suspected that all the suspects are already back at large.

<pic images/nextdoor-walgreens.ps People notice the thefts, but don't want the police.>

And no one who is clear-headed is surprised why San Francisco had more
drug-related deaths than Covid deaths in 2020. There
were <LINK>https://sf.gov/sites/default/files/2021-01/2021%2001_OCME%20Overdose%20Report.pdf|697 cases in San Francisco|697 drug-related deaths in San Francisco</LINK>of people who died of drug overdoses. 257 people died from Covid.

Why the high number of drug deaths? This is because in rundown neighborhoods
like the Tenderloin, drug dealers can sell fentanyl, a cheap drug similar to
crack with devastating effects, without facing any consequences thanks to our
inactive district attorney.

<pic images/tenderloin-drugs.ps Open drug abuse in San Francisco's Tenderloin district.>

Despite this devastating record, Boudin's followers still follow their guru
like sheep and continue to double down, even though the game has long been
lost. I regularly rub my eyes in astonishment when I look at the almost
cult-like stubbornness of these followers, who spring up like mushrooms in
online forums whenever someone says something against Boudin, and recite the
party program as if brainwashed.

However, the overwhelmed Mayor London Breed recently had a complete meltdown on
television, likely because elections are coming up in a little over a year, to
point out the devastating conditions in the city, and announced that she would
no longer tolerate them. She even used the actually forbidden word "bullshit"
to categorize the events that (delicately under her leadership) had led to the
complete breakdown of law and order in the city! Although she did not mention
Boudin by name, she indicated that his political group could brace themselves
for unpleasant measures.

<pic images/breed-bs.ps Mayor Breed is going over the security measures due to the conditions in the city.>

To top it all off, she also declared a
<LINK>https://londonbreed.medium.com/a-safer-san-francisco-eb40d9d502e4|State of Emergency"|London Breed declares "State of Emergency</LINK> in the
Tenderloin district, probably to get government funding to increase police
presence. And that, even though it has been less than six months since they were
advocating to shrink the police budget with the then-popular slogan
<LINK>https://www.kqed.org/news/11862094/sf-mayor-breed-unveils-plan-for-reinvesting-120-million-from-police-into-black-communities|'Defund the Police'| London Breed cuts police budget</LINK>, to supposedly benefit black
minorities with the proceeds. Imagine, now she wants more money from the state to turn back the clock! The right-wing press is laughing its head off.

<em>Angelika</em>I wanted to add a bit more to what Michael wrote about the
Tenderloin district, as I worked at the Tenderloin Childcare Center there for
many years. The neighborhood has always had an exceptionally high crime rate in
San Francisco and is notorious for drug deals, prostitution, and strip clubs.
Since it is located right between City Hall and Union Square, the downtown
shopping area, we have always advised visitors against taking a shortcut
through the district. Even when I worked there many years ago, drugs were dealt
openly on the streets, and mentally ill individuals would sometimes throw
bottles at you. Shootings were also a daily occurrence.

With the children I worked with, we could only visit playgrounds that were
fenced and staffed, like the Tenderloin Recreation Center on Ellis St., which
is managed by the city. The other open playgrounds were overrun with drug
dealers or needles. However, when we walked through the neighborhood with the
children, there was still something like an honor code, and the drug addicts
would quickly hide their needles when we passed by with the children.

The neighborhood has traditionally also had many immigrants who have just
arrived in the US and often share a small one-room apartment with their entire
family.  The district also has a high concentration of buildings where single
individuals can rent a single room. Many seniors without family connections and
with low pensions therefore live in the Tenderloin district. We often had older
volunteer helpers at the facility where I worked at the time, who enjoyed
taking on the role of grandparents for the children. There are also many
charitable and social organizations in the Tenderloin, such as "Glide Memorial"
and "St. Anthony's.

The new drug "Fentanyl" now seems to be finishing off the neighborhood, much
like the crack-cocaine crisis did in the 80s. Fentanyl is actually a powerful
painkiller often used in pain management for cancer therapy, but it quickly
leads to strong dependency. If overdosed, death occurs within a few minutes,
whereas the window for heroin overdose, for example, is 1-2 hours. In San
Francisco, the strategy for a long time was to distribute clean needles and the
antidote Naloxone, which helps in the case of a Fentanyl overdose. However,
this has not alleviated the crisis, and the number of drug deaths in the
Tenderloin continued to rise in 2021.

By now, many people living with their
families in the Tenderloin have had enough. They recently marched to City Hall
to speak with our mayor, London Breed, and to express their frustration. Even
former drug addicts from the Tenderloin say they would never have gotten off
the drug if they hadn't eventually been given the choice between rehab or
prison. Many in the neighborhood would be satisfied if at least the drug
dealers were held accountable.

@Z: School Board Recall

<pic images/sb-recall-tv.ps The evening news reports on the upcoming recall of the San Francisco School Board.>

<em>Angelika</em> It is evident that tensions are rising in San Francisco and
that citizens are becoming increasingly frustrated, as seen by the growing
number of initiated recall procedures from political offices. I have already
reported on the recall procedure against District Attorney Chesa
Boudin (<RBLINK>20211101#2</RBLINK>). Last week, a brochure landed in our mailbox
informing us about the next recall in San Francisco: This time, 3 out of 7
"School Board members" are up. What exactly is a "School Board"? Even
translating the expression into German is not so straightforward.

The translation "committee" of a public school district
probably come closest to the concept. School policy in the US is very
decentralized, even more so than in Germany. Although certain requirements of
the federal government or the state must also be met in the US, the individual
school districts with their associated school boards have extensive powers. For
example, they are responsible for finances, such as how much is spent on what,
the curriculum, hiring of staff, etc. In San Francisco, the school board
consists of 7 members, each elected for 4 years. They make school policy for
130 schools with 54,452 students (as of October 2019). However, the number of
enrolled students dropped significantly during the pandemic, which was also
related to the school board's policies.

<pic images/lincoln-high.ps Narrowly avoided being renamed by the school board: Lincoln High School.>

In principle, any adult residing in San Francisco can run for election.
However, the school board often includes teachers or parents with school-age
children.  The election will take place on February 15. If I were allowed to
vote, I would vote to remove all three members listed for recall. However, only
guardians who have a child in a public school in San Francisco are eligible to
vote. By the way, in San Francisco, parents who are not American citizens are
also allowed to participate in the School Board election.

<pic images/school-board-recall.ps In January, there is an election to remove the school administration in San Francisco.>

Why are so many parents in San Francisco so upset that they want to remove half
of the School Board? Much of it has to do with the school closures due to
COVID-19. Public schools in San Francisco were closed for almost a year, even
when infection rates in the city had been very low for a long time. Meanwhile,
all private schools in San Francisco had resumed in-person classes, as had
public schools in neighboring cities. What finally caused the situation to boil
over was that the School Board spent months dealing with the renaming of San
Francisco schools but did not develop a plan to finally get the children out of
remote learning. What happened? The members of the School Board had the
brilliant idea to rename 44 schools in San Francisco because the individuals
after whom the schools were named had not behaved impeccably and had blemishes
on their records by today's standards.

<pic images/lincoln-rename.ps Many local newspapers expressed criticism about the renaming.>

Even schools that bore the names of highly revered individuals were affected:
"Lincoln High," named after Abraham Lincoln, who abolished slavery, and "Dianne
Feinstein Elementary School," named after the still-serving Democratic Senator
from California, Dianne Feinstein. The reasoning was that Lincoln was partly
responsible for the execution of 38 Dakota Indians in 1862. Feinstein
allegedly, as Mayor of San Francisco in 1984, replaced a Confederate Flag
that had been stolen from in front of City
Hall. Today, the flag is considered to be a symbol of racism.

However, the School Board acted rather arbitrarily, as the "Cesar Chavez
Elementary School" was not included on the list, even though Cesar Chavez was
known for using not-so-friendly terms for illegal Mexicans. The School Board
also faced quite a bit of ridicule on both local and national levels because it
became known that some decisions were based on Wikipedia entries and no
historians had been consulted. Promptly, there was backlash from the local
press and even from intellectual national newspapers like the New York Times.
When our mayor, London Breed, had a meltdown on Twitter and urged the School
Board to finally focus on reopening the schools, as this particularly helps
disadvantaged families, the School Board decided to put the renaming of the
schools on hold for the time being.

<pic images/london-breed-twitter.ps San Francisco's Mayor London Breed overrules the left-wing radicals on city council.>

The recall machinery, however, could no longer stop this. You might be
wondering why only 3 of the 7 members have to fear for their positions. Four of
the 7 members had not been in office for 6 months when the recall process was
initiated, and therefore, according to recall rules, cannot yet be removed. The
three in question are: Gabriela López, Alison Collins, and Faauuga Moliga.
Alison Collins is a particularly controversial figure. A few years ago, she
posted some extremely nasty tweets that attacked Asian fellow citizens in a
very unpleasant way, and she was foolish enough not to delete them before
taking office. As a result, she lost her vice-chair position on the board when
some clever individuals dug up these old tweets, but she did not resign as
demanded. She then pursued a completely absurd $87 million lawsuit against the
school district. Although it was immediately dismissed and did not go to trial,
the whole situation is truly unparalleled in its absurdity.

<pic images/sb-recall-front.ps In our mailbox is a request to vote out the school board ...>

And now the state of California is also threatening to take over financial
supervision of the school district's budget. The San Francisco school district
has a deficit of over 125 million dollars and must now create a plan to address
the shortfall if it wants to retain its decision-making authority over how the
money is allocated.

<pic images/sb-recall-back.ps ... and leading politicians agree.>

And as if that weren't embarrassing enough, our mayor London Breed went a step
further and announced that the city will take a stronger supervisory position
and, among other things, withhold funds if the School Board does not focus on
its primary mission of educating the city's students. They are the ones who get
left behind in all this political theater.

@Z: Walgreens

<pic images/walgreens-closed-front.ps This Walgreens store closed due to excessive theft.>

<em>Michael</em> Drugstore chains like Walgreens or CVS have recently been
complaining about skyrocketing losses due to shoplifting. The thieves know the
law is on their side. Even store-employed security personnel are legally not
allowed to stop them if thieves are caught. This has led to situations where
vagrants or disheveled schoolchildren maraud through the stores with huge
garbage bags, stuffing everything within reach into them and walking out
unchallenged. Recently, we were at the Safeway supermarket on a Sunday
afternoon and witnessed firsthand how some teenagers stuffed goods into their
backpacks and made a run for it. This has become the norm. The goods are then
hawked on street corners, like at the Mission/24th subway station in broad
daylight. It's obvious that the items come from the nearest drugstore. And
reportedly, even Amazon now has stolen goods up for sale!

<pic images/walgreens-mission.ps To protect the store from theft, a police officer is now stationed in front of the branch.>

Although stores are allowed to check customers' bags and request a receipt at
the exit, customers are not legally required to comply. If a thief walks out
with obviously stolen goods, store personnel are not allowed to stop them. Now
you might be wondering why mega-supermarkets like Costco check receipts at the
exit and no customer objects to it. This is simply because Costco is a
membership-based supermarket where every customer pays an annual fee. If a
customer refuses the check at the exit, the supermarket uses cameras to
identify who it was and revokes their membership. This way, Costco stays
legally on the safe side.

<pic images/walgreens-closed.ps The tragic end of a useful drugstore.>

For the past few months, there has been police officers from the San Francisco
Police Department (SFPD) stationed in front of practically every Walgreens.
They are authorized to stop and arrest lawbreakers. However, in the long run,
this becomes costly, and many fear that this will eventually lead to further
closures of these branches. Recently, the CVS chain announced that by January
2022, they will <LINK>https://www.sfgate.com/sf-businesses/article/CVS-closing-San-Francisco-locations-January-2022-16717681.php|close|CVS closes branches in San Francisco</LINK>
six of their branches in San Francisco.
This, in turn, affects the elderly
and poor people who have difficulty traveling to the branches in the suburbs to
fill their prescriptions or meet their drugstore needs. And so the cycle
continues: If we don't prevent poor souls from looting the drugstores, we
deprive even poorer souls of access to the necessary infrastructure --
something to keep in mind for the next election.

@Z: Komoot, the hiking and cycling app

<pic images/komoot-heidelberg.ps A city hike recorded with Komoot in Heidelberg.>

<em>Michael</em> Since the onset of COVID, we have practically been going for
an hour-long walk every day, exploring the lesser-known corners of the city.
Finding a nice circular route in a densely populated city like San Francisco
that offers wide views and runs far from heavy traffic, perhaps even includes a
300-foot high staircase within a posh neighborhood, or an unpaved path known only
to the immediate neighbors, is not so easy. Let alone finding such a previously
explored path exactly the same way on the next hike; often, it gets tricky at
the points where you actually need to turn, and you end up on a suboptimal
path.

<pic images/billy-goat-hill.ps Also on our Komoot tours: The little-known Billy Goat Hill in San Francisco.>

Enough of that! With the Komoot phone app, I can plan new city walks on the
built-in map, save them, and when we want to go for a hike, I just need to open
the app and select one of the 50 saved routes, quickly drive to the starting
point, and then get going. We have the craziest routes, one goes over rocks
that you have to climb down, and another goes through the wing of an abandoned
old hospital. All strictly secret, of course! And when we were in Germany last
summer, as tourists sightseeing in the city of Heidelberg, I also created a
circular route there that passed by all the sights, from the Philosopher's Walk
to the castle.

<pic images/komoot-app.ps Our collected city tours in San Francisco>

When Komoot navigates through a previously saved hike, it informs you at which
corners you need to turn right or left to follow the given route and find your
way back to the parked car. The app itself is free, and the basic version is
sufficient if you only stay in a specific region. However, if you leave your
home area, it suddenly doesn't recognize any maps, even though they are based
on the freely available OpenStreetMap data. But if you pay an additional 30
dollars, it suddenly works everywhere. Okay, the Komoot team needs to keep the
lights on in the server room, and with your contribution, you're practically
paying their electricity bill.

<pic images/komoot-swing.ps In the neighborhood of Bernal Heights, a hiking trail passes by a swing.>
<pic images/komoot-redsky.ps Angelika on a city walk in the Sherwood Forest neighborhood>

The clumsy English of the documentation, by the way, reveals that the app is a
German product. Rumor has it that many British road cycling enthusiasts also
use it for navigation. All in all, it is well-made, although very amateurishly
monetized. But well, German internet entrepreneurs are not good at that.
Tragically, they always leave money on the table. Okay, at least those who
stayed behind in Germany, haha! As an outdoor product, however, I recommend the
app without reservation.

@Z: Top Product: Pizza Steel

<pic images/pizza-steel-serve.ps Homemade pizze in the oven>

<em>Michael</em> When it comes to pizza, like many of you, I grew up with the
average offerings in Germany, which aren't bad. But when I was a young lad and
visited New York City for the first time, driven by hunger in the middle of the
night, I left the youth hostel and walked across the street to a branch of the
chain "Roy's Pizza" to get a slice. I almost fainted because this piece of
pizza was orders of magnitude better than anything I had ever devoured in
Germany under the name "pizza".

In America, pizza naturally tastes much better than in its country of origin,
Italy, where the dish is mainly fed to clueless budget tourists who can't
afford meals in the more upscale restaurants with real Italian food. In
America, and actually mainly in New York City, pizza ranks among the dishes
where the locals have zero tolerance for sloppy cooking skills. The "New York
Style" is known throughout the country for its thin, crispy crust, and when it
comes to ingredients, apart from tomato sauce, mozzarella cheese, and maybe
anchovies, nothing else is really allowed. Asking for anything different would
be about as embarrassing as ordering red wine with ice in a street café in
Paris.

<pic images/pizza-steel-oven.ps In the oven, the pizza steel conducts heat to the pizza better than a pizza stone.>

In San Francisco's pizzerias, I often find the pizza to be too doughy. I don't even
want to mention the "Chicago-Style," which for the worldly man is not pizza at
all, but rather a quiche, though opinions on this differ. And another thing:
frozen pizza is an imposition, and anyone who heats one up at home should
consider whether they haven't already turned into a one-way street in life, at
the end of which stands a sign reading "Bankruptcy." The soggy pizza from
delivery services is no substitute either, and for those who want to eat pizza
at home, the only real option is to knead the dough yourself, stretch it out,
add canned pizza sauce (Don Peppino is quite good) and grated cheese (a bit of
Parmesan first, then a heap of Mozzarella), and somehow bake it using your home
oven.

<pic images/pizza-steel-leopard.ps The steel gets so hot that burnt spots appear on the underside of the pizza.>

To effectively transfer the heat from the home oven, which usually maxes out at
550°F (290°C), to the pizza, many people buy a so-called pizza stone. This is a
ceramic slab that you heat in the oven for a good half hour before launching
the flat pizza onto it using a large paddle. This method works quite well, but
the stone does not transfer heat to the pizza as effectively as a piece of
steel that is equally hot. Why? The thermal conductivity of steel is higher
than that of ceramic. Consequently, an equally hot piece of steel transfers
more heat to the pizza dough lying on it, causing the bottom to slightly burn.
This results in dark brown spots on the underside, known as "leoparding," which
gives the dough its distinctive pizza flavor. The problem, of course, is that a
one-centimeter thick piece of steel in the size of 40cm x 40cm weighs about as
much as a small car and starts to rust within seconds if left standing wet.
Like a cast iron pan, you should not use dish soap to clean it; instead, you
should occasionally apply a layer of cooking oil to prevent the dough from
sticking during the next pizza baking session.

<pic images/ooni.ps Alternative: A 500-degree hot gas-powered pizza oven for the balcony.>

Admittedly, this dough doesn't taste like it was baked in a 500-degree
wood-fired oven of a pizzeria, but for a home oven, the result is
acceptable -— certainly much better than with conventional methods. If you still
want to compete with a pizzeria at home, you can buy a portable gas or wood
oven from the company "Ooni." Reliable sources have assured me that the pizzas
from these small but hot devices actually have pizzeria quality. Unfortunately,
we don't have the space, and such an oven has to be kept outside because of the
exhaust fumes!

Greetings from San Francisco:

Angelika and Michael
