San Francisco, April 18th, 2023

Z: Lost Coast for the Third Time

<pic images/sc-black-sand-rock.ps Unpredictable man at Black Sands Beach in Shelter Cove.>

<em>Michael</em> Long-time newsletter readers know what the "Lost Coast" is,
namely a remote coastal strip 200 miles north of San Francisco, almost near
Eureka. Not even Highway 1, which runs along the entire West Coast, goes
through here, too mountainous and inaccessible is the area there
(<RBLINK>20040826#5</RBLINK>, <RBLINK>19981015#2</RBLINK>). Why we're always
drawn back there, is probably because it inhabits a special kind of people,
superficially perhaps a bit aloof and eccentric, but on closer inspection very
warm and helpful.

<pic images/sc-hangout.ps A sandwich shop in the village is the local hangout.>
<pic images/sc-airport.ps Shelter Cove even has a small planes airport for hobby pilots.>

To get to Shelter Cove, the adventurous tourist must drive about 25 miles from
the small town of Garberville, located on Highway 101, crossing a hill range,
and down to the ocean. Once there, they must make do with what is available;
they can't just quickly go to the nearest grocery outlet or make a visit to the
emergency room of a local hospital. For any undertaking, they must overcome the
25 mile winding road back to civilization. There is only one restaurant with a
brewery attached, and only one supermarket of the "Mom-and-Pop" variety in the
area. The "General Store" at the entrance of Shelter Cove is small but
surprisingly well-stocked, from vegetables and bread to fishing gear, it has
everything one needs for daily life. Sure, the goods there are slightly more
expensive than in the big city, but not unreasonably so, considering the
remoteness of the place.

<pic images/sc-propane.ps The truck pumps gas for heating and cooking into home tanks.>

Regarding supplies, there is electricity and Internet in Shelter Cove, but only
weak mobile phone reception in some places. For example, we had no connection
at all on the entire drive over the hills, but luckily you can't get lost there
due to lack of alternative routes. Most of the residents there heat and cook with
gas, which they store in large tanks in their frontyard, and the gas truck comes
from time to time for a refill.

<pic images/sc-genstore-fuel.ps Even gasoline is available and not that much more expensive.>
<pic images/sc-genstore.ps The Shelter Cove "General Store" has everything you need for day to day living.>

Since only very few tourists find their way to Shelter Cove, you'll hardly see
anyone while hiking along the legendary several miles long Black Sands beach.
Instead, you can find all kinds of washed up sea creatures, such as the otherwise
rather rare sea urchins and starfish. Every half hour, we saw pairs of backpack-laden
globetrotters, hiking south on the legendary "Pacific Trail" on
multi-day tours that can only be done at low tide.

<pic images/sc-black-sand-beach.ps The magical black sand beach>¡Hola!
<pic images/sc-sea-lions.ps Sea lions on rocks off the beach at Shelter Cove.>

With our Honda Fit, nicknamed "Brummi", we took the time this time to explore
small mountain roads along the coast, driving through remote villages with just
a few houses.  Especially the particularly potholed and amateurishly patched
coastal road south of Cape Mendocino had caught our attention. Such tours,
however, require good stamina, because sometimes you can't drive faster than 40
km/h due to the potholes, and occasionally even over unpaved sand tracks. We
spent a great week, but then a rainstorm broke out, which, absolutely
unbelievable for California, even brought a few inches of snow.

<pic images/sc-sea-star.ps On remote beaches you can find rare washed up sea creatures.>

It was unusually cold this time during our visit. Despite being so close to the
coast, the temperatures dropped to 32F during our stay, which was also a record
for California. When a few raindrops came down as snow, which even stayed on
the ground due to the cold weather, newspapers and news channels were filled
with breaking news! Also, typical for California, this was enough to cause total
traffic chaos.

<pic images/sc-lighthouse.ps The lighthouse of Shelter Cove is next to a campsite.>
<pic images/sc-brummi.ps Remote coastal road north of Shelter Cove.>

TODO

The only road connecting back to civilization was temporarily closed due to storm damage, and no one could get down to ShelterCove or up to the civilization of Northern California. The only business in town had only one server the next day, who pointed out that the fish dishes on the menu were unfortunately not available due to lack of fresh fish. And when I ordered a burger, I was told that I could have avocado on it but unfortunately no bacon, as that was also out. We like it rustic!

<pic images/sc-traffic-101.ps Traffic chaos due to a few snowflakes.>

Sperrung.

When we wanted to drive home after a week of vacation, the next problem came up: Although the connection from Shelter Cove to the main Highway 101 was now open again temporarily, on the main Highway 101, the only connection south, a few fallen trees, power poles and therefore blocked trucks led to a closure.auf SR-299 in Höhe Trinity Dam Blvd.

Closure southbound on SR-299 at Trinity Dam Blvd.It was no longer possible to drive down from the north into the San Francisco Bay Area, unless one was willing to put on snow chains and crawl over adventurous small mountain passes to the east to the I-5, which would have extended the 4-hour tour to eight hours.

We had booked a cottage in the town for a week through AirBnB, and had originally planned to drive back to San Francisco on Saturday. Our landlord, who was not on site but had been following the situation in the news, suggested that we just wait until the situation normalizes and generously offered to let us stay in the house for free for one or two more days.

It was also interesting that the communication of the state road maintenance authorities was exclusively through Twitter and Facebook. We signed up on the Facebook group for Shelter Cove and there daredevils reported their adventurous and failed attempts to cross the pass back to Highway 101. "Caltrans", the state agency for traffic in California, reported on Twitter with photos about the closures of the 101 and recommended to monitor the situation and wait.

<pic images/sc-snow.ps Return journey back to civilization>

On Sunday morning, a favorable window of time opened up for us; the weather had cleared up, Google had given the route on the 101 with a small detour, and brave drivers reported that the pass from Shelter Cove and over the hill was passable despite some fallen trees and icy spots. Now or never, we thought, and set off, and it was quite passable. I drove our Honda Fit with summer tires slowly over the few icy spots on the pass and stopped twice to the right to wave pickup trucks with balloon tires and let them break through. As readers can imagine, under normal conditions I would have mercilessly snubbed such vehicles, but these were not normal conditions!

<pic images/sc-trees-down.ps On Highway 101, a winter storm knocked down some trees.>

Except for a few places where Highway 101 southbound was only one lane open, and Caltrans employees directing traffic with "Stop/Slow" signs, letting traffic through in one direction while cars had to wait in the other, we made it through quickly and safely back to the Bay Area.

Heavy rain in California.

<pic images/tree-smash.ps A tree that was knocked down in the storm crushed a car in front of our house.>

<em>Angelika</em>California is used to distress when it comes to natural disasters. Wildfires, earthquakes, and drought are usually on the agenda. A state that not only counts among the most populous, but also has a lot to offer geographically. From the ocean to the high mountains, desert, and rich agricultural land, there is something for everyone. The low rainfall in recent years has caused concern, as extreme drought leads to constant forest fires, not only during the California fire season, usually in September and October. Everyone was longing for rain and this year it came in abundance. This, however, led to catastrophic conditions again, namely to massive floods, landslides, fallen trees, power outages and evacuations.

In California, it seems like everything always plays out to extremes. It was unusually cold in the winter, as Michael mentioned in his report about Shelter Cove. So it snowed not only in the mountains but also in lower areas. Since the average California driver is already overwhelmed by normal rainfalls, chaos broke out during the winter storms. People in the Bay Area were almost begged not to go to the ski resort at Lake Tahoe, which is normally a popular weekend destination, as the snow masses there led to road closures.

<pic images/bernal-mud-slide.ps Mud sliding down from Bernal Hill.>

Some very clever people followed blindly Google Maps or Waze to get around these blockages, but they quickly learned that neither Google nor Waze knew which roads were cleared and which weren't. The storms lasted for months. One storm after another since December. Many smaller coastal roads simply broke away, and in Santa Cruz, the cheerful surfer and student city, 117 kilometers south of San Francisco, people could kayak in the flooded streets. In higher areas around Los Angeles in the mountains around San Bernardino, the people there were snowed in for weeks.

Woche später schon wieder die Sonne gesichtet.

Here in San Francisco, the strong wind that came with the rain was particularly troublesome for us. Countless trees fell because their roots could no longer find a hold in the muddy ground and the wind blew some of the huge trees away like matches. Even the huge tree in front of our house gave up and simply fell across 24th Street on New Year's Eve. The tree crushed a parked car that belonged to the waitress in the restaurant next door. Thank God nothing worse happened and nobody was injured. Normally there is always a lot of activity on the sidewalk in front of our house, but since it was raining and New Year's Eve, the flow of pedestrians was limited. And typical for San Francisco, the sun was already spotted again a week later.GoFundMe page for Noe Valley Tree AccidentCreated to buy the waitress a new car.

<pic images/wind-palm.ps The storm is blowing the palm tree in front of the house around.>

Otherwise, some of the windows of the skyscrapers in downtown San Francisco broke, and the pieces flew down from dizzying heights, which was naturally very dangerous. But miraculously, no one was hit, which is probably also due to the fact that the city center of San Francisco has been deserted for years. One then wonders how it can be that skyscrapers have such flimsy windows that they shatter in a storm. The windows did not only break in older skyscrapers but also in the relatively new Salesforce building. But I learned that many years ago in my earthquake training with the firefighters. Skyscrapers only have safety glass from a certain floor. Therefore, the first responders advised to seek protection at the entrances of the skyscrapers in case of an earthquake, in order not to be hit by flying debris, because skyscrapers are allegedly built particularly earthquake-proof. Whether one can rely on that, however, I now doubt.

Superbloom is a term used to describe a large number of wildflowers blooming at the same time.

<pic images/superbloom-field.ps A field of California Poppies near Lancaster in California.>

<em>Angelika</em>The heavy rain brings many positives with it. The natural water reservoirs in California have been full for a long time. We therefore hope for a less destructive fire season, as the soil and landscape have been well moistened. And nature is currently pulling out all the stops.

<pic images/superbloom-green.ps The steppe is blooming due to the abundant rain.>

Not only are the California hills finally lush and green again instead of gray-beige, but wildflowers are also sprouting from the ground and seem to be competing to see who can conjure up the most beautiful orange, yellow, or purple. Whole stretches of land are covered with these flowers, coloring the hills yellow and orange. This phenomenon of an abundant bloom after a stronger rainy season is called here "Superbloom", a visual spectacle that is hardly captured by photos.

<pic images/windmill.ps Otherwise brown hills are now lush green.>

During my Easter holidays, we drove down to Los Angeles. Along the highway, we enjoyed the green hills and the abundance of flowers. Then we took a trip from Los Angeles into the interior of the country near the city of Lancaster and drove to the "Antelope Valley California Poppy Reserve Park". We didn't get into the park because there was already a long line of cars waiting. But the adjacent fields, meadows and hills around the park offered a similar spectacle. As the name of the park suggests, there is an abundance of California poppies there.

<pic images/superbloom-containers.ps The blooming poppies enchant the landscape.>

This bright orange California poppy, known to botanists as Eschscholzia californica, has been the state flower of California since 1903. Quite fitting, I think, as the California poppy not only shimmers orange-gold in homage to the gold found in California long ago, but the plant is also a real survivor. The seeds can survive long periods of drought in the soil and patiently wait for their big moment. When it rains, they quickly bloom and the impressive fields of flowers appear. The plant is also poisonous, so it's probably best not to eat the flowers in large quantities. In any case, I couldn't get enough of this color show. By the way, you shouldn't behave like a nature barbarian and sit in the middle of the flower field to take pictures or trample on the plants, but take your souvenir photos from the path.

<pic images/cactus-burger.ps Burger with onion rings in a farm.>

After experiencing this natural phenomenon, we were hungry, and I found a restaurant nearby with good reviews. We drove about 15 minutes on straight roads through a deserted area that reminded us more of the outskirts of Las Vegas than California, and reached the small town of "Antelope Acres". And lo and behold, in this 2800-inhabitant town there is the restaurant "Iron Cactus". At first, however, we had to find the entrance behind the not very inviting tinted windows. But inside it was all cozy with the typically American padded "booths", i.e. tables or separées. We ate delicious juicy burgers with the best fried onion rings I've ever eaten.

Top Product: Selfie Mirror for the System Camera

<pic images/mirror.ps Small mirror attachment shows the image crop in selfie mode.>

<em>Michael</em>ursprünglicheLeidenschaft für die Fotografie wieder aufleben zu lassen.

Nowadays, a cellphone camera is usually enough for decent photos and video recordings, but a perfectionist like me always looks at it closely and therefore needs professional quality. As luck would have it, Angelika got one of these ultra-modern "system cameras" as a birthday present, which is what Germans call mirrorless reflex cameras, while the Americans call it less pretentiously "Mirrorless Camera". This Sony a7ii, together with a good (but expensive!) lens, takes breathtaking photos and videos, and I'm also allowed to use it from time to time to revive my original passion for photography.Michael's YouTube channel with YouTube videos.to turn.

Unfortunately, the Sony engineers who designed this camera have thought a bit too short and simply forgotten that some people use it in selfie mode, that is, pointing the camera at themselves, and it is quite practical to be able to see yourself on a control display while taking the shot so that you don't cut off your own head and have to reshoot the whole scene cursing loudly. The display on the back of the Sony a7iii can be folded out and swiveled, but not so that you can see it from the front. Clearly a brain fart from the Sony engineers.

No matter, luckily a clever tinkerer has now invented an accessory for the flash shoe, a prism-shaped plastic housing containing a mirror visible through the front viewing hole at a 45-degree angle, through which you can see the rear-folded control display with the ongoing recording from the front of the camera! Brilliant!

<pic images/ulanzi.ps The essay costs only 12.95 on eBay.>

On Ebay, the item was available for a reasonable $12.95 with free shipping, and now during recording I can perfectly see if my head is in the right frame without a cameraman. What a relief! Top product!

@Z: Corona has still caught up

<pic images/corona-test.ps Shock news: Two lines on the Corona test.>

<em>Angelika</em>After we had held out for a mere two years and nine months and had not infected ourselves with Corona, it finally caught up with us both in December 2022, despite two booster shots. Everyone thought that Corona was almost over. We were also convinced that we would not get it anymore or had already had it without noticing. Then came the Christmas party with my colleagues. It took place in a restaurant, and two days later Michael complained of sore throat.

At first, there was hope that it was just a normal cold, because his coronatest was still negative, but the next day the fever and the coughing came. The two stripes on the test strip were no longer to be denied. I still felt great and took care of the sick person. Monday morning before work I had to take a test to make sure I wasn't positive either, because I work at a school. As I said, I still felt great and made myself a coffee in the morning and then packed my lunch for school. Then I looked at my test and had to rub my eyes a bit, because two pink stripes were already shining at me after about three minutes.

So I was positive too and put my lunch back in the fridge, because I couldn't go to school anymore. Throughout the day my condition worsened and the fever came. I have to say that I have been sick many times in my life, but Corona felt different. I had never had such sore throat before. That only came on the third day. I was so out of it that I begged Michael to take me to the emergency room, and who knows how it is in the US, you understand that I was no longer in my right mind. Michael of course refused this, thankfully. Interestingly, I had no cough at all, while Michael fought from one coughing attack to the next. We were both really sick for five days and after two weeks everything was completely over. After about seven days the Covid test was finally negative again and Christmas was saved.

Declaration of goods upon entry.

<pic images/airport-1.ps After landing, it's off to immigration control.>

<em>Angelika</em>The last few times we flew from Germany to San Francisco, we noticed that we no longer had to fill out a customs declaration form on the plane. Since we always have a lot of stuff in our luggage when we come from Germany and have to list these things on the form, we were initially a bit confused. Of course, there was no information about this on the plane. Those of you who are familiar with America know that everyone, including tourists, green card holders, and American citizens, must fill out the so-called "CBP Declaration Form 6059B" upon entering the US.

On this form, not only goods brought into the country had to be listed, but the traveler also had to answer a series of questions, such as whether they had food in their luggage or had been on a farm. The question of fruits, vegetables and meat products in the luggage was also to be denied. Usually the immigration officer then took the form from you, after he had looked at the form and perhaps asked one or two questions, stamped it, and gave it back to you. A popular question for travelers coming from Germany was always: "Do you have sausages with you?" Then you got your luggage and handed the stamped form back to the other officer on the way to the exit.

<pic images/nyt-kiosk.ps Even the New York Times has marveled at the kiosks.>

The last few times, however, it was different. The officer we showed our passport to only asked if we had brought anything from Germany. I mentioned a few things and the officer was satisfied with my answer. I then did some research and found out that most airports in the US are moving away from paper documents. In the style of the EU, they want to rely more on random customs checks, e.g. by sniffer dogs on the baggage carousels, which sniff out unauthorized goods, after which officers pull out the affected persons and thoroughly inspect their luggage. That's fine with me. After all, I always have to fill out the forms with us, and I can really imagine something better than rummaging around for a pen after hours in a cramped airplane to do paperwork. However, there still seem to be airlines that distribute the form in the airplane. As I said, the information is meager and based only on experience.

Also at the immigration desk at the San Francisco airport there is what is known as this.mit Gesichtserkennung

At customs kiosks, facial recognition is being used.No longer were the kiosks that always drove me crazy when entering the country. Behind the word kiosk was a terminal with a monitor, on which you answered the customs declaration questions electronically and scanned your green card and passport. This was supposed to speed up the entry process, but the machines were pretty clunky and often didn't scan properly or inexplicably didn't accept the documents. The officer you went to after the kiosks often got quite annoyed because it meant more work for him. Not to mention that I had to fill out a paper customs form a few times while standing in line because the kiosks weren't working.

Nowadays, facial recognition is relied upon at all international American airports. Upon entry, when the passport is shown, the responsible official takes a photo of the face, which is then compared with the biometric data in the passport. A photo is taken of anyone over 14 years old, including American citizens. If you have an American passport, the photo is allegedly removed from the database within 12 hours, while for those entering without an American passport, the photo goes into the biometric database of the American agency "Homeland Security". Allegedly, American citizens can refuse the photo. However, what happens then remains unclear.

Something else is slowly disappearing due to digitalization: the entry stamp in passports that foreign travelers used to receive upon entering the US is no longer needed in most cases. This stamp indicated where the traveler entered American soil, what class of entry they received (e.g. as a tourist), and how long their stay in the country was allowed. Our old passports have many pages with these stamps. The clicking of the stamp was the familiar sound when we stood in line at the immigration counters at the airport. It's a shame, because other countries are also eliminating entry stamps. I still have an old travel passport with DDR entry stamps. A truly historical document.

California's nanny-state policies.

<pic images/butter.ps Stimulus: Irish butter in aluminum foil.>

<em>Michael</em>You probably know that the legal situation in the different states of the USA takes on very different forms. Our state of California, for example, is very quick to pass laws that (allegedly) serve the protection of the public, which is why conservative voices give it the label "Nanny State".

An example from recent times: As an old penny-pincher, I almost always buy dairy products at the Aldi-like supermarket "Trader Joes", and butter, which is extremely expensive in America (about $10 per pound), always cost only $3.50 per half pound. The brand "Kerrygold" from Ireland came in as an import and tasted great, and was also sold unsalted, while otherwise American supermarkets mainly offer salted butter.

Suddenly, one day to the next, the Kerrygold butter had disappeared from the refrigerator shelf. Well, such things happen from time to time due to supply shortages, recently there were no eggs or toilet paper during the pandemic crisis, so I grudgingly bought the slightly more expensive American product. But after weeks, when the Kerrygold butter was not only missing from Trader Joe's, but also from the organic supermarket Rainbow, Whole Foods and even the megamarket Costco, I decided to get to the bottom of the matter.

e) in Kraft getreten.

It turned out that a new law(s) had come into effect in California on January 1, 2023.Assembly Bill 1200Per- und polyfluorierte Alkylsubstanzen) einschränkt

Enacted into force, restricting the chemical compound PFAS (Per- and polyfluorinated Alkyl Substances)"Per- and polyfluorinated alkyl compounds"The wrapping of edible goods in foil paper is prohibited. The Kerrygold Irish had mixed the devilish stuff in their silver and gold packaging, and due to the new law, they had to stop the delivery of their butter. According to news, the butter should be available for sale again soon in its new paper coat.

<pic images/lightbulb.ps Old-fashioned light bulbs are strictly prohibited in California.>

The same applies to old-fashioned light bulbs: As you can see in Figure (#3), Amazon is happy to ship these to less restrictive states like Kentucky, but not to California.

<pic images/butane.ps Amazon refuses to ship lighter fluid to California.>

Another "aha" moment is the sale of lighter fluid, also known as butane. Four years ago, the overzealous politician Grayson came up with the idea of drafting a law to regulate the sale of this fuel in California - allegedly many hash oil producers used it for the illegal manufacture of their hippie products. The law was promptly accepted with some modifications (Grayson also wanted to set up a database with all the sold butane bottles, but that was rejected) by the California Senate and Governor Newsom put his seal on it. Although the text of the law explicitly excludes refill cans for lighters and my crème brûlée burner, Amazon stubbornly refuses to deliver refill cans to our address in San Francisco (#2). You also have to search for a long time to find a bottle in the supermarket.

<pic images/creme-brulee.ps No more butane for my crème brûlée torch!>

<pic images/sunset-explosion.ps Drug manufacturers buy butane in industrial quantities.>

ein neues Restaurant eröffnete, waren die Einwohner überrascht.

In mid-February, in a relatively quiet residential area of San Francisco, the so-called "Sunset" with mainly Asian population, a new restaurant opened out of the blue, surprising the residents.A house exploded in San Francisco's Sunset District, as seen in new video.It turned out that the tenant there was running a drug lab. Thick barrels of chemicals and large-scale giant gas cylinders with butane were revealed. Responsible for the Nanny State regulations were amazed to learn that criminal drug manufacturers do not order small bottles of lighter fluid, but get the raw materials in a more efficient way. You never stop learning!

Greetings from the Central Office of the Asylum

sind zusammen einkaufen.

Angelika and Michael are shopping together.
