San Francisco, 07-03-2023

@Z: Autonomous Driving as a Reality

<HTMLONLY>
<GIF>images/waymo-cesar.gif|Quite normal: Self-driving cars in San Francisco</GIF>
</HTMLONLY>
<PRINTONLY>
<pic images/waymo-cesar-static.ps Quite normal: Self-driving cars in San Francisco>
</PRINTONLY>

<em>Michael</em> On the streets of San Francisco, we're experiencing almost
futuristic scenes recently. Initially skeptically received, but now fully
accepted by the drivers, more and more self-driving cars are mixing into the
dense city traffic.  The first time I came to a stop an intersection next to
one of these cars equipped with conspicuous cameras and glanced over, I
couldn't believe my eyes: the driver's seat was empty and there was nobody else
in the car. When the light turned green, we both drove off, at pretty decent
speed.

I really have to say that these cars drive amazingly well. To that you have
to know that 90% of Californians drive like twelve year olds. I know people
who spent 200,000 dollars on BMWs but can't even parallel park. When you're at
an intersection with four stop signs, there's always someone who's supposed to
go first, but it's quite common that no one does at first, and then everyone starts going at the same time and the honking begins.

I have had several encounters with Google-operated self-driving Waymo cars in
city traffic, and every time I was amazed at how well their driving computer
handled complex situations. Cars from the company Cruise, backed by General
Motors, are also driving around at a similar level. Once I arrived at a 4-way
stop at the same time as a Waymo car, and I thought to myself, "Oho, let's see
what happens now". A second later, the Waymo car cautiously entered the
intersection, just like a human driver who is on the ball would do.

<pic images/waymo-night.ps At night, Waymo cars work as driverless taxis.>

Once I saw that on the opposite lane of a two-lane but not particularly wide
street, a cyclist was coming towards me, behind him a Waymo vehicle followed
by a line of cars that didn't
dare to overtake because the road was too narrow. I drove a bit further to the
right on my side to make room, and suddenly the Waymo car came over, crossed
the center line by half a meter and overtook the cyclist safely and smoothly.
No driver in San Francisco, would have dared to do that, and I was surprised
that it had been taught to the driving computer. Hats off!

<pic images/waymo-do-color.ps Self driving Waymo cars are quite common In our neighborhood.>

You can also hire the driverless vehicles as cabs. Download the app "Waymo-One"
or the competitor's "Cruise" onto your phone and then book the ride like with
Uber or Lyft. However, this business is currently only allowed to the two
companies in the middle of the night. The city of San Francisco has only issued
the permit between the hours of 10 pm and 5 am.

It is a bit creepy to get into a driverless car, but friends have told me that
they arrived safely at their destination after booking a ride. Self-driving
cars, by the way, take strange routes through the city. Because it is
technically easier to turn right than left, they do not choose the shortest
routes, but those without left turns. So they take detours that a human driver
would probably not choose.

So far there has been not a single serious accident. As
usual, some old-fashioned hippies in our city are up in arms against the
innovation, as recently when there was
<LINK>https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2023/jun/12/san-francisco-robotaxi-hinder-emergency-crews-shooting|a shootout with nine injured in San Francisco's Mission district.</LINK>
In the aftermath, a self-driving car stopped and didn't go any further
in the vicinity of the crime, even when an ambulance demanded to get
through. Left-leaning city councils took to their Twitter accounts
and were more upset about the car than the shooting itself!

Recently, a Waymo car ran over a dog that had broken away from its owner and
had run out onto the street from behind a car. Well, that happens, even with
human drivers, but when it comes to robotaxis, the complainers start
complaining. The technology will still come anyways, and it rest assured that
it has my blessing.

@Z: Social Studies in California

<pic images/sc-arnie.ps Former California Governors, right Arnold Schwarzenegger and left Jerry Brown.>

<em>Angelika</em> As attentive newsletter readers know, I work as a behavioral
therapist in a fourth grade class. In social studies, fourth grade is all about
the state of California. As someone from northern Germany, I learned in my
elementary school years about the Wadden Sea and the North Sea. Here in
California, it's about the missions, the indigenous people of California, the
gold rush, the expansion of the railroad, and the influx of immigrants.

<pic images/state-capitol.ps Glass windows in the State Capitol in Sacramento>

Children in our school are also learning about the geographical regions in
California, all about the capital Sacramento, and how the California government
is structured. We also did the so-called mission project in our class. Everyone
who has attended elementary school in California knows what that entails. In
fourth grade, you build one of the many mission churches that span the state.
Then there is a lot of crafting. Some children create 3D models, others paint
the mission of their choice on a canvas or make a podcast about the topic.

One of my students built a virtual mission in the video game "Minecraft".
Interestingly, this project seems to always evoke sentimental reactions from
the parents, because at every parent meeting we are asked when the mission
project in the fourth grade will finally start and whether we will do it. Since
2017, the California school board has rather discouraged it. Especially the
reconstruction of the missions in model form is problematic, because they say
there's the risk that the missions could be glorified without taking into
account the oppression of the Indians at the missions. Now I have to say that
maybe fourth graders are underestimated here, because at that age they have a
pronounced sense of justice and the exploitation of the Indians in the missions
is indeed addressed in the curriculum.

We also included a trip to the capital city of Sacramento to deepen what we had
learned. So we packed our fourth graders into a minibus and drove off, quite an
effort for a day trip, since Sacramento is about two hours away (by car) from
our school. First we visited the "State Capitol", the building where California
legislators gather to pass laws and shape the fate of the state of California.
The building is relatively old by American standards, as it was completed
between 1861 and 1874. When we were there for the tour, many politicians were
buzzing around the halls, waiting for the elevators or chatting with their
colleagues.

<pic images/suttersfort.ps Tour of "Sutter's Fort".>

Then we continued to "Sutter's Fort". John (formerly: Johann) Sutter was a Swiss immigrant who built the fort and operated it from 1839 to 1949. He named his colony "New Helvetia" and traded as a large landowner and oversaw agricultural land being cultivated. The sawmill in Coloma also belonged to him. One of his employees, James Marshall, found gold there in 1848, triggering the California Gold Rush, ironically leading to the downfall of the fort, as John Sutter's workers left to pan for gold. The fort is now a museum and very child-friendly, with various performances, to show how the blacksmith worked or how flour was milled and bread was baked.

<pic images/speisewagen.ps Dining car at the Railroad Museum in Sacramento.>

The last stop of our trip was the Railroad Museum in Sacramento. Trains still
have a lot of appeal to today's generation of children. My students and I
especially liked the old trains that we could go into, and we admired the post
office, the sleeping car, and the dining car. At the Railroad Museum, we didn't
even have to pay admission, because with fourth graders in tow, who are
studying California history in school, no admission is charged. Since September
2021, families with a fourth grader can apply for an annual pass, the so-called
"California State Adventure Park Pass", which gives them free admission to 19
California State Parks. An interesting idea!

@Z: The Price of Ice Cream

<pic images/icecream-mhb.ps This ice cream cone cost 8.20 Dollars in Manhattan Beach, California.>

<em>Michael</em> I recently heard that the scoop of ice cream in Germany now
costs two euros. That's shocking for a dinosaur like me, who can still vaguely
remember a time when a scoop of ice cream with a cone once cost 10 pfennigs,
but that's nothing compared to the murderous ice cream prices in America.

Ice cream has always been incredibly expensive in America, and that has nothing
to do with the fact that the production of treats here would be more expensive
than in Germany (quite the opposite), but rather that Americans are simply used
to spending absurd amounts of money on such snacks.

<pic images/icecream-wb.ps In the Bavarian city of Weißenburg, this scoop of ice cream cost 1.90 Euro a year ago.>

At Mitchell's, an established ice cream parlor in San Francisco, people line up
for twenty minutes in nice weather to get an ice cream for a whopping five
dollars a scoop.  It costs 75 cents more with a cone, and the sales tax adds
about 10% on top of that. Also, the servers there also expect tips, like
thirsty camels in the desert approaching a water hole. It's not a fancy store
by any means, with mostly working-class customers, and you have to wonder how
crazy you'd have to be to spend a third of your hourly wage on ice cream.

<pic images/mitchells.ps The established ice cream shop Mitchell's in our neighborhood.>
<pic images/icecream-mitchell.ps At Mitchell's in San Francisco, a scoop of ice cream costs a whopping 5 dollars.>

You also need to know that ice cream in America is not even particularly good,
nor are the scoops significantly larger than in Germany. Okay, the aforementioned
store "Mitchell's" has flavors like "Mexican Chocolate" that I don't think even
Sarcletti in Munich has, but the ice cream quality is absolutely on par. As
always, the price does not depend on how expensive the production and
distribution of a product is, but solely on how much the consumer is willing to
pay for it in the free market.

@Z: Presidential Campaigns Have Begun

<pic images/trump.ps Will Trump be re-elected President in 2024?>

<em>Angelika</em> We hadn't really thought that it would come to this again,
but now both Trump and Biden want to try one more time and stand for election as
President in 2024. The election campaign in America has already begun. Trump
had always said that he wanted to run again, but nobody really believed it. The
hope was that Trump would be forgotten with the passage of time. Unfortunately,
that is not the case. His base remains loyal to him. Biden had also promised to
retire after one term, but apparently he can't stay away from the White House
either.

Many Democratic voters are not enthusiastic about this. They would have
liked another, and above all younger, candidate. Everyone gets tired quickly in
the office of the President, as we could already observe with Obama, who
suddenly became grey, but Biden seems to be ignoring all doubts about his age.
Nobody can really warm up to Kamala Harris, whom Biden wants to have by his
side again. Many are concerned that Biden may not be able to last another four
years, as he already looks frail, and that Kamala Harris will then have to take
over the office.

So far, it seems that no one in the Democratic Party is daring enough to really
challenge Biden, at least there are no serious candidates. Robert F. Kennedy
Jr., son of the murdered politician Robert Kennedy and nephew of John F.
Kennedy, has jumped into the race, but with his conspiracy theories and
anti-vaccination campaigns, he is not doing well with typical Democratic
voters. Then there is Marianne Williamson, author and former spiritual advisor
to Oprah Winfrey, but I would dare to say that no one is giving her any
chances. The rumor mill keeps bringing up Gavin Newsom, our current governor of
California, but although everyone knows he has ambitions for the White House
and would be a serious candidate, he is hesitating for some reason.

<pic images/newsom-biden.ps Biden is running again in 2024, but it's unknown with Newsom.>

Among Republican candidates, it's hard to keep track of them all. The field is
large. In addition to Trump, there is the Governor of Florida, Ron DeSantis. In
my opinion, he is a would-be Trump, one of the younger politicians in the race
at 44 years old. However, DeSantis is very conservative and known for getting
involved in various culture wars that seem very outdated in times of climate
crisis and other hotspots in the world. DeSantis is however considered to have
the best odds in the primaries against Trump. However, he has the charisma of a
sleeping pill. Furthermore, the Republican Party is represented by the
following candidates: Nikki Haley, former Governor of South Carolina and former
UN representative under Trump; Vivek Ramaswamy, entrepreneur and author; Asa
Hutchinson, former Governor of Arkansas; Larry Elder, a conservative radio
personality; Tim Scott, Senator from South Carolina; Mike Pence, Trump's former
Vice President; Chris Christie, former Governor of New Jersey; Doug Burgum,
Governor of North Dakota, Francis Suarez, Mayor of Miami, and Will Hurd, former
Texas Congressman. Those who know the American system of primaries know that
this field will quickly thin out.

The exciting question remains: what will happen if Trump is actually convicted
in the pending case regarding the secret documents? The Constitution does not
prohibit someone who has been convicted and sentenced from being President. It
is also unlikely that the proceedings will be completed before the presidential
election begins. I think it is rather unlikely that Trump will have to serve a
prison sentence. Comedians are currently playing up the prison scenario, but
the Secret Service must guard the President at all times and in all places and
no one knows how to do this logistically in prison. It would certainly be
unthinkable to conduct the official business from prison, but this situation
has never existed in the US, so no one really knows what would actually happen.
An impeachment procedure would be one possibility if the President cannot
fulfill his duties in prison. Another possibility would be that Trump pardons
himself if he is convicted. Here too, opinions differ as to whether this is
legally possible at all. Trump of course uses the whole thing mercilessly to
portray himself as a victim and mobilize his base. Some malicious voices even
claim that he has not handed over the secret documents despite several
requests, in order to play out this scenario, because if he had given back the
documents, the case would most likely have fizzled out quietly. Madness!

@Z: Earth Roamer: The Monster RV

<pic images/er-1.ps (#2) The 700,000 Dollar Earth Roamer RV>

<em>Michael</em> American loves to cruise around in a huge recreational vehicle
(RV) on the freeways, park it at a campsite in the evening, and then expect to
find all the comforts of home.

The luxury of "glamping" (for "glamorous camping") is also defined by the
spaciousness of the vehicle used, with motorhomes up to 15 meters in length not
being uncommon, and some even offering extendable side walls that can turn the
interior into a loft-style living space.

<pic images/rv-park.ps RV Park at the Beach in Los Angeles>

Recently, when I was taking a walk with an ex-colleague through San Francisco,
I noticed an unusual monster RV parked in front of a luxury villa that looked
like a mix of a military spy tank and an American school bus (Figure (#2)). My
ex-colleague, an admitted car enthusiast, immediately knew that it was a
so-called "Earth-Roamer", an insanely expensive luxury RV.

<pic images/er-2.ps A mix of American truck and reconnaissance tank.>

So I immediately took a picture of it and when I got home, I swiftly looked it
up online -- and was shocked. I knew that RV enthusiasts were willing to spend
$200,000 for a rolling living room, but the Earth Roamer is more than three
times as expensive: the base price is $695,000, and with some extras, the
rustic glamping mobile already costs close to a million.

The chassis of the vehicle consists of the most popular American monster truck,
the Ford F-550, of course off-road capable with hydraulics, including a classic
engine winch in the front, if it gets tough. And of course you can't skimp on
the interior. In a
<LINK>https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rq47gxaHp1I|Demo-Video for the Earth-Roamer on Youtube</LINK>
the layman can marvel at the dining
table set featuring distressed leather seats and extremely solid looking
cupboards made from expensive wood.

<pic images/er-3.ps On the website, potential customers can configure their dream motorhome.>

Whoever thinks that such a vehicle can't possibly be so expensive, can take a
look at the <LINK>https://earthroamer.com/new-lti/how-to-buy/|Earthroamer price
list</LINK> online. Look at the website and start saving. Once again, it is
confirmed that there is a significant number of people in San Francisco who are
so flush with money that it starts burning a hole in their pockets.
Well, if you already have a
house for six million, you might just as well get an outdoor RV for a million.
You only live once.

@Z: Bad inflation, everything is getting more expensive!

<pic images/ifl-jb-bread-1199.ps In March 2023, a loaf of bread cost 11.99 dollars.>

<em>Michael</em> It's certainly not escaped your notice that everything is
getting more expensive, and you're probably eager to find out if it's the same
in the US as it is in financially-strapped Germany. To that I can say that
certain goods have always been absurdly expensive here by
international standards (cheese, butter, good bread, wine, beer, ice cream),
while clothes or beef are definitely cheaper here.

<pic images/ifl-jb-bread-899.ps In December 2022, the same bread was still 30% cheaper.>

For the past 20 years, prices have crept up almost imperceptibly year after
year, and while a burrito at a Mexican restaurant cost about $6 in 1997, the
price of this fast food eventually surpassed the $10 mark by 2015, which is
actually a relatively acceptable increase due to unavoidable inflation. Then
came Corona and within two years the price suddenly jumped to $16. And if you
want beef on it, add another $2 because beef has suddenly become scarce and
expensive (Figure #3)!

<pic images/beef-burrito.ps (#3) Beef has become suddenly more expensive.>

Looking at a table of official US inflation rates by year, it appears that 2023
had the highest recent rate at 8%, similar to Europe where it was 9.2% in 2023.
It also shows that the US had even higher rates in the 80s, around 14%, and
that was for several years.

<pic images/inflation.ps US inflation rate from 1960 to present>

If you, like me, regularly go to the supermarket to buy groceries, you know
that the inflation rate is currently far from 8%. It is much higher!
One reason for this is that
the published numbers are reduced from official sources using interesting methods. For
example, if a car used to cost $10,000 and now costs $20,000, it is not assumed
that there has been a 100% increase in price. No, the statisticians argue that
the car is now much more modern and has smarter functions, so the car is now
much more valuable than the old vehicle. The consumer is lucky to be able to
buy this progress at a higher price! The inflation calculation is then based on
an appropriately adjusted base price, not the previous price. That the consumer
might be satisfied with the old function and would rather buy a less
sophisticated but cheaper car does not matter. Those interested can read how
the government agency "Bureau of Labor Statistics" (BLS) calculates inflation
as the "Consumer Price Index" (CPI) and reduces prices with the so-called
<LINK>https://www.bls.gov/cpi/quality-adjustment/questions-and-answers.htm|"Hedonic Quality Adjustment"</LINK>.

<pic images/baguette.ps A baguette for 7.50 dollars at the supermarket.>

Eating out at restaurants has become more expensive for us too, since there are
hardly any people willing to work in the low-wage sector right now. You have to
pay around 25 dollars for a cheap main course in San Francisco, or more than
$40 for something meaty. However, I was shocked to find out during our visit to
Germany this summer that German menus have also reached this level! One thing
that is still cheaper in Germany is beer. While a "pint" at "Zeitgeist", one of
the few beer gardens in San Francisco, now costs 9 dollars (plus 2 dollars
tip), hardly any shop in Germany charges more than 6 euros.

@Z: Traveling in Times of Climate Change

<pic images/tahoe-lake.ps Lake Tahoe in May>

<em>Angelika</em> The last winter and spring finally brought a lot of rain and
snow to the higher elevations of California, which hopefully will help our
drought-stricken state get through the fire season better. Of course, a good
winter can't make up for years of drought, but it certainly helps. So the water
reservoirs have been filled again (8 out of 12 are back to 75% according to
official sources). The snow cover in the mountains has grown back to a healthy
level and only
<LINK>https://calmatters.org/california-drought-monitor/|5% of California's land area is left in drought conditions.</LINK>

<pic images/tahoe-flooded.ps The heavy rain has flooded hiking trails.>

In California it is now actually so that one has to plan their leisure
activities around the extreme weather phenomena. In the hotter months we often
hear: "We actually want to go hiking and camping, but we don't know exactly
where yet, because we have to see where the forest fires will happen this
year." My brother and sister-in-law, who visited us last September, for
example, could not go to Lake Tahoe because a forest fire nearby had so badly
deteriorated the air quality that staying in the open air was classified as
extremely hazardous to one's health. When we then took advantage of the
rebooked short trip a in May of this year, it was still snowing in Lake Tahoe,
and at the same time the snowmelt had set in, which led to flooded hiking
trails.  Crazy new world. However, the crowds of people who usually populate
Lake Tahoe were notably absent from the attraction, and we almost had the beach
and lake with the still snow-covered mountains all to ourselves.

@Z: Top Product: Chinese Burn Balm

<pic images/balm-1.ps (#1) The Chinese Miracle Balm Ching Wan Hung>

<em>Michael</em> I am known to cook a lot at home, often Bavarian home-style
cooking, since it is not so easy to get here in California. Recently, when I
elegantly slid a breaded schnitzel into the bubbling pan of fat, it splashed
back, burned my skin a bit on my forearm, and left a burn mark
not unlike Gorbachev's bald spot (illustration (#1) above).

Severe pain set in! Fortunately, I have the right medicine for such accidents
on hand, namely the Chinese miracle balm "Ching Wan Hung", readily available in
our bathroom cabinet. It can be bought at any local drug store or on
<LINK>https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00885P95U|Amazon</LINK>.  It's
inexpensive, comes in a small tin. It's rust-brown and interestingly scented,
feels like chain fat and smells of oriental essential oils. Once applied, it
cools the burn and the pain will slowly subside.

<pic images/balm-2.ps Healing process of skin burned with oil>

Moreover, it seems to accelerate the healing process of the skin and prevent
scarring, because even the schnitzel fat-related bad spot on the forearm
crusted within a week and beautiful pink new skin grew underneath. After two
weeks, it had completely disappeared. Of course it would be better to avoid
such accidents when cooking in the first place, but if something happens, I
highly recommand this balm. Top product!

@Z: Electric Car Cables On the Sidewalk

<pic images/ev-charge.ps The cable comes to the car if the car cannot be connected to the socket.>

<em>Michael</em> If you asked attentive drivers in our Bay Area which car brand
is most dominant on the roads, "Tesla" would likely be one of the frontrunners.
Californians also like to buy other electric cars, but the lack of charging
stations, which is often lamented in Germany, is also a problem here.

<pic images/ev-array.ps Collection of EV cables photos on our city hiking trails.>

However, this does not seem to bother the eco-conscious, as employers often
provide charging stations that can be used during working hours, or they can
simply charge at home. However, many houses here in San Francisco either do not
have a garage, or the garage is full of clutter from the last move, or people
have more than one car.

As a pedestrian, you often see breathtaking electrical installations, with a
cable running from the house to a car parked on the street in front of the
door. Once I even saw a cable running through a window on the second floor, down
a tree to the gutter! Of course, this is all illegal and dangerous, and the
thick cables draped over the sidewalk may be annoying to wheelchair users or
stroller pushers, but you see them everywhere. Surely the bureaucrats of San
Francisco will soon find a way to fine these electric car fans, so that the
empty city coffers can be filled again!

Greetings from San Francisco!

Mike and Angelika
