San Francisco, 10-19-2023

@Z: Applying for a Disabled Parking Permit

<pic images/handi-view.ps "Because we have a red placard ...">

<em>Michael</em> Parking tickets in America are much more expensive than in
Germany, but if any of you want to experience a really hefty fine, I have two
tips for you here: parking at a bus stop or in a disabled parking space - that
costs almost a thousand dollars in fines. Even if you only stop briefly and an
official, i.e. a policeman or meter maid sees this, you'll be hit with a
monster ticket.

<pic images/handi-paint.ps "... our car may be parked in a handicapped parking spot.">

As you know, only vehicles displaying a disabled parking permit may park in
disabled parking spaces, but as a neutral observer, I often notice that there
are people emerging from these cars with astonishing mobility. This made me
wonder: Who hands these people handicapped parking permits anyway?

But what do you know, last summer I unexpectedly had the opportunity to explore
this question, because after a bad football accident, I could only walk with
crutches, even after knee surgery. Every location that was more than 30
feet away became a burden, and so I thought, I'll give it a try, maybe I'll
get a plaque and can then park in the first row at the supermarket entrance, so
I don't have to torture myself so much.

<pic images/handi-placard.ps (#8) Disability plaque from the DMV>

So I called the doctor's office where I was in treatment for the knee, and
asked about a disability permit. The receptionist knew immediately what to do
and sent me an email with a filled-out PDF form number 150 issued by the
California DMV. On it, the doctor had confirmed that due to my knee injury I
suffered from restricted mobility. I went ahead and filled in the remaining
form data, driver's license number and address, and signed to confirm. The
receptionist had also warned me that the DMV sometimes requires the original
form with the doctor's ink, but I just gave it a try and filed an online
application with the DMV, and uploaded scans of my driver's license and the
doctor's confirmation on the form.

<pic images/dmv-receipt.ps (#9) The DMV certificate authorizes the placard.>

After a few days, I received confirmation via email that a fee of $6 was
required to proceed with the application, which I promptly paid online using my
credit card. A few days later, I received approval via email, and a week later,
a letter from the DMV arrived with the red plastic placard shown in image
(#8). Accompanying it was the officially stamped certificate from image (#9),
which must be carried while displaying the plaque hanging from the rearview
mirror, while parking the car in restricted spot.

With the placard, one can actually not only park in disabled parking spaces,
but also in neighborhoods with residental parking, and even at parking meters,
as long as one likes, without paying a dime! And since the temporary plaque is
issued for six months, it remains valid even if the patient has recovered in
the meantime.

However, you can't use it to park illegally, such as in no-stopping zones or in
front of a driveway, where the vehicle will still be towed away regardless. And
the permit may only be displayed hanging from the rearview mirror if the person
with mobility impairments was transported by the car. Violations and general
misuse of the permit can result in even harsher penalties, up to $4,200 in
fines.

<pic images/dmv-form-150.ps DMV Form 150 for the application>

On my red plastic placard, the word "Temporary" is written in large and bold
letters, so it expires in my case after six months, and must then be renewed
with a new medical certificate if required. Instead of the tranferable placard,
there are also special license plates with the blue disabled symbol, which are
permanent and attached to the respective vehicle, and (probably) checked
more strictly by the DMV.

<pic images/trader-handicap.ps The temporary placard is valid for 6 months.>

Ironically, it also states on the certificate that at service stations with
full service, the attendant must fill up the vehicle of a disabled person at
the self-service price. I would have liked to test this out for our newsletter
readers, but unfortunately, I am not aware of any service stations around
here where there are still attendants, except maybe in the state of Oregon.

@Z: Angelika's New Job

<pic images/gissv-sign.ps Angelika's new school.>

<em>Angelika</em> After five years at the Burkard School located in San Mateo,
south of San Francisco, I thought it was time for something new and applied for
a position in special education at the German International School of Silicon
Valley (GISSV).  I got the job and have been working there since August as an
inclusion specialist, which means I look after children who need additional
support. I'm working in both the preschool and kindergarten areas, as well as
in primary school. The German School has been around since 1999 and has grown
steadily over time. There are now two locations: one in Mountain View on the
Peninsula and another in San Francisco's Castro district, very close to our
neighborhood. I'm working at both locations alternatingly, with four days a
week spent in Mountain View, and one day in San Francisco, where I can easily
get to by simply walkng to work over the hill.

<pic images/gissv-building.ps The German School in San Francisco>

The German School is a private school that charges tuition fees and is part of
the group of approximately 140 worldwide German schools around the world that
are overseen by Germany's federal foreign office. What sets it apart is that
students can earn both a German diploma, such as the Abitur, and an American
High School Diploma. It goes up to grade 12 and the curriculum follows that of
the German state of Thuringia. The school is bilingual; in the classes for very
young children and the kindergarten, there are two teachers in each classroom,
one who speaks German and one who speaks English. During the first few years of
primary school, however, the instruction is conducted solely in German, and
English is offered as an elective subject. I am always fascinated by how
effortlessly most children switch between languages, and I'm learning a lot by
working in this setting.

@Z: Dynamic Toll on Freeway Express Lanes

<pic images/express.ps Dynamic toll fees on the expressway depending on the exit>

<em>Angelika</em>
Unfortunately, I'm now facing a long commute and spend long hours on most days
driving to and from my new workplace. Traffic is now almost as bad as before
the pandemic, especially on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, because that's
when most Silicon Valley companies like Facebook, Google, Apple require their
employees to be in office.  Politically speaking, little moves when it comes to
traffic in this country, even in California. For decades, people have been
arguing about a high-speed train between San Francisco and Los Angeles without
any progress. Even plans to expand BART, the subway system of the Bay Area,
aren't going anywhere due to high costs. It's all moving way too
slowly.

The planners at CalTrans, the California traffic agency, have now started the
construction of what are known as "Express Lanes" on our freeways. I don't know
if this is really the smart thing to do in order to accelerate the traffic
policy turnaround. These restricted lanes on American highways have actually been
around for a long time, especially in the Los Angeles area. The original idea was to
reward drivers who do not travel alone, and encourage them to form carpools.
If a driver has a passenger in the car, they can use the carpool lanes during
rush hour, which are supposed to be less congested, helping you to reach your
destination faster. Even electric cars with a clean air sticker on the
windshield are allowed to use these special lanes, even if there is only the
driver in the car.

<pic images/express-toll.ps When traffic is light, the toll is reduced.>

On Highway 101, which runs from San Francisco down to Silicon Valley, there are
now express lanes that require a toll in many areas. If drivers are alone in
the car and want to use these lanes, they must pay an extra fee between 5am
and 8pm. However, electric vehicles and carpoolers receive discounts: for
electric vehicles as well as cars with two or more occupants, it's half price.
For three or more passengers and motorcyclists, the lanes are toll-free. Anyone
wishing to use the lane, regardless of how many people are in the car, needs a
Fastrak device.

<pic images/fastrak-flex.ps (#10) The Fastrak Flex Device allows setting the number of passengers.>

Now the crazy thing about this is that these new express tracks have dynamic
pricing. The more congestion there is, the more expensive it is to use the fast
lanes.  Large signs over the lanes show how much the section from here to
certain exits currently costs, which can range from 50 cents to $12. There are
several sections between San Francisco and Mountain View. With heavy traffic,
toll for the express lanes can really add up. This new system is supposed to
improve the flow of traffic on the freeway. I doubt that. The revenue generated
by the tolls collected is allegedly invested in the expansion of public
transportation. That would be nice, because California really needs to make
progress on this at some point. I would love to take the train from San
Francisco to Mountain View, for example. There's even a high-speed regional
express called "Bullet Train", but getting to and from the train station with
public transport is onerous and time-consuming, and driving is still much
faster, even in heavy traffic.

@Z: How can German emigrants renew their passports?

<pic images/passports.ps New and old passport>

<em>Michael</em> Germans like us who have lived abroad for a long time no longer have a
German residence. For this reason, the extension of our passports is not the
responsibility of any local government office in Germany, but rather handled by the
consulate in San Francisco. However, this particular consulate
does not only serve the residents of San Francisco, but also the entire upper
west coast of the USA, including Hawaii and Alaska!

Now as you can imagine, they are pretty busy. And one cannot simply waltz in
there, show the old passport, hit the table and have it renewed, instead one
must first arrange an appointment, of which the consulate grants only thirteen
per working day. Besides Friday naturally, because there is no customer traffic
at the consulate on Fridays.

<pic images/german-consulate-sf.ps The German Consulate in San Francisco is going to renew my passport.>

Unsurprisingly, new appointments are gone in a flash. The consulate makes new
dates available at midnight German local time (!) for the same day in exactly three
weeks' time. At this point in time, i.e., at 3pm local San Francisco time (on the
previous day), as one might imagine, hundreds of emigrants are swarming the
consulate server, in order to attempt to grab one of the highly coveted thirteen new appointments.
Unsurprisingly, the consulate server cannot withstand the onslaught, and crashes
regularly at this time (Illustration #1).

<pic images/diplo-busy.ps (#1) The consulate's appointment server crashes under the user load.>

Those who don't give up immediately, can witness a few minutes later that all
appointments for the day are booked (Illustration 2) and the citizen must try
again at midnight German time on the next day. Hopefully, nobody is in a rush
to get their passport renewed.  But according to consular information, one can
apply for an emergency appointment by email, and if the urgency of the
appointment is successfully justified, one will reportedly be squeezed in
somehow.

<pic images/diplo-taken.ps (#2) Unfortunately, all appointments for today are already booked.>
<pic images/diplo-patience.ps "He who doesn't get an appointment is asked for patience.">

Those select individuals who manage to fill in the online form with luck and quick fingers, including the
bot-proof Captcha that only eagle-eyed people can read, faster than the rest of
the hungry mob, get an appointment assigned. On this date, which is exactly three weeks later,
they may then come to the embassy at the appointed time with their to-be-renewed travel document plus a
set of <LINK>https://www.germany.info/us-en/service/02-PassportsandIDCards/passport-adult/951294|other documents</LINK>, including a birth and marriage
certificate, along with photocopies.  Actually, the old passport can't be
renewed, instead one must apply for a new one every time. Also, the consulate
is not allowed to store any of the data, so one must bring all the supporting
documents in their original form with copies every time.

<pic images/photo-rules.ps (#5) Exact specifications for passport photos>

Regarding passport photos, they must measure exactly 35mm x 45mm according to
the specifications in illustration (#5). In addition, the depicted head must be
facing the camera straigt on and meet a series of proportional requirements. If
you have a camera and a color printer at home, you can make your own photos. My
(admittedly perfect, but then again I'm a pro) home-made photos were accepted
without any issues.

People with less confidence can have their photos taken at a variety of
specialty stores in San Francisco, but also at Walgreens. There's no photo studio
there, but instead, one stands in front of a white wall in the
store, the clerk retrieves a cheap digital camera from a drawer, takes a
photo, and then inserts the SD card into a color printer. Walgreens even has a
setting for "German Passport" on the computer, and the image then meets the
required specifications. For this service, one typically pays around $18.

<pic images/pass-walgreens.ps (#6) The photo department at Walgreens also takes passport photos for German travel documents.>

Generally, the citizen hands over their old passport at the appointment at the
consulate. But then of course the old document can't be used until the issuance
of the new passport. However, if a passport that is not yet completely expired
is still urgently needed for travel, the citizen may hold onto it after submitting the
application at the consulate. But since a German citizen can only possess one passport document at
any time, they must either send the old passport by mail or personally deliver it
for deactivation as soon as the new passport arrives at the consulate. If they
leave the old passport at the consulate when applying for the new one, on the other
hand, the staff will deactivate it there upon arrival of the new one. Only then can the
new passport be collected, either by Fedex (at a cost of $23.60 for postage) or in
person at the consulate with an appointment.

By the way, I wanted to dispel a rumor that is stubbornly circulating on the
Internet: A German passport does not necessarily have to be
"valid for at least X months" in order to enter Germany with it. It actually
remains valid until the very last date of validity, indicated on the document.

<pic images/passport-fees.ps (#4) With express shipping and FedEx delivery, the new pass costs €136.>

According to rumors, I have also heard from some expatriate Germans on Facebook
that it is indeed possible to extend a passport at a residents' registration
office in any city during a visit in Germany, provided that one is stubborn
enough. From what I've heard, the offices in larger cities often put up
resistance, but smaller towns allegedly make an exception for an extra fee.
However, one must then stay in Germany until the new passport is ready, which
can take several months.

<pic images/pass-cc.ps (#3) The amount will be charged in dollars to your credit card.>

On average, it takes the consulate 6-8 weeks to issue a new passport. However,
by paying an express fee of €32, you can speed up the process. I had booked the
"Fully Loaded, All Inclusive" luxury package (my words), which includes all extras such as
express processing and subsequent FedEx delivery. And lo and behold, the FedEx envelope
with my new passport arrived exactly 14 days after my consulate appointment at
our home address. Although it was marked for personal delivery only upon
signature, I found it lying in the lobby of our building in the evening.

The old passport that I had submitted with the application at the
consulate was also included in the envelope, although the machine-readable section had
been cut off to cancel it (See the Schrempf story in <RBLINK>20221108#1</RBLINK>).

As you can see in the breakdown in Figure (#4), the processing, including the foreign
surcharge costs 81 Euros, the express fee is an additional 32 Euros and the Fedex delivery
costs 23.60 Euros. The consulate accepts credit cards (Visa/Mastercard), which
will be charged in Euros from a location pretending to be located in Germany, so the
credit card company shouldn't be too paranoid
about it. Supposedly you can also pay in cash in local currency (US dollars in our case),
although the consulate's website claims otherwise. The Euros charged
to my credit card were naturally converted back to dollars by the credit card
company, and a total of $149 was deducted (see Figure (#3)).

Here's another bit of interesting consulate lore: The foreign representations
of the Federal Republic of Germany are divided into consulates and embassies.
There is always only one embassy per country, and in the United States it is
located at the capital, Washington, DC. However, the Germany also maintains a
total of eight general consulates here in the U.S., where you can also get a
new passport among other things. The head of the consulate in San Francisco,
the consul, is incidentally an employee of Germany's foreign service and
reports to the German Foreign Minister, Annalena Baerbock. In more remote areas
such as Hawaii, German citizens can also seek help from a locally resident
honorary consul, who receives German citizens at home in his living room and
arranges the processing of applications with the nearest consulate. Could this
be the next step in my career?

@Z: Drama Finding a New Primary Care Doctor

<pic images/drmike.ps You think you're in good hands with this doctor?>

<em>Angelika</em> In May of this year, our longtime family doctor informed us
that he was retiring. We had been anticipating his departure for some time now,
as our doctor was over 70 by our estimates. That he even managed to deal with
the crumbling American healthcare system for so long is commendable. He was a
doctor of the good old school: careful, experienced, but not prone to panic or
ordering unnecessary tests. On the other hand, he acted quickly and surely when
it was necessary. He was the one who diagnosed Michael's pulmonary embolism,
which the emergency room had unfortunately missed. We will be forever grateful
for that.

In our naivety, we initially did not worry about finding a new family doctor in
San Francisco. After all, we live in a big city with what we thought were many
options. Our doctor didn't find a successor for his practice, but he
sent us a letter listing half a dozen doctors who were willing to take on his patients. In
July, we thought it was time to bite the bullet and find a new primary care physician,
because without one, you're in trouble if you unexpectedly get sick. I also needed a
health certificate for my new job, so that was another reason.

Michael and I both called several doctors from the list, just to find out that
almost nobody accepted new patients or cared enough about their own practice
being on the successor list of our doctor. Often, no one answered the phone, and
when we left a message, no one bothered to call back. We dialed and dialed 
and scoured the Internet for other options. The few times we actually did get someone to
pick up the phone, it felt like winning the lottery. Most didn't care at all about
our situation, except one time I got lucky and a nice healthcare worker gave me three
phone numbers to try a few large health organizations like Dignity Health, One Medical,
and Circle Medical.

These organizations manage large medical practices and sometimes even hospitals.
Doctors are then employed by them. Most of them do not have a particularly good
reputation, as patients have to deal with excessive bureaucracy and a huge
administrative apparatus. Reviews often reveal chaotic conditions. When I
tried to log in to the portal of Dignity Health to view my doctor's notes (see
link below), I found myself navigating through endless menus and pop-ups before
finally finding what I was looking for.

<pic images/hospital.ps Patient experiencing the American healthcare system.>

At long last, we finally found a family doctor through the Dignity Health group. Not in
the city of San Francisco, but 20 miles south on the Peninsula, in the town of Belmont.
We made an appointment online with the doctor, and were pleasantly surprised
that the complex has free parking, which is unheard of in San Francisco.

So why is it so difficult to find a primary care physician these days? Family
doctors are poorly paid in the USA, just like in Germany, and there's very few
doctors who want to work in the field for this reason.
Added to this is the extremely inefficient American healthcare system
that demands dealing with bureaucratic burdens, totally unrelated
to their actual work. As a result, according to forecasts, by the year 2025, California will experience a
<LINK>https://letsgethealthy.ca.gov/goals/redesigning-the-health-system/increasing-access-to-healthcare-providers|shortage of 4,700 primary care physicians</LINK>.

@Z: Shopping Tax Free in Europe

<pic images/tax-free-zoll-sign.ps Refund of value added tax at the airport>

<em>Angelika</em> If you're still one of these people who like shopping trips
to the city center, you may have already noticed that in Europe, stores
sometimes advertise tax-free shopping. How does this work? The value added tax,
which Germany levies on most goods, adds 19% to the purchase price. But people
from non-EU countries can get a refund on the tax paid on purchases during
their trip. The prerequisite is that the goods are only intended for personal
use and are brought abroad in unused condition and carried in the traveling
luggage.

This also applies to German citizens living in non-EU countries, like us.
It is required, though, that their German passport must show the foreign residence, or the
customs officer will be deny the required stamp on the customs form. To
claim a value added tax refund, customers can theoretically obtain an export
certificate at the store, then collect the customs stamp upon departure at the
airport, which certifies export of the goods, and then later present or send the
stamped certificate back to the store. This is naturally very cumbersome,
especially when you've shopped at many different stores during a tourist visit.

Therefore, there are service providers that simplify the reimbursement for
foreign customers, for a fee. "Global Blue Refund" is one of the best-known
companies, but recently it has become increasingly common to find another provider called
"Planet Tax Free". Customers can process the claime through either provider.
In cities with many foreign tourists like Amsterdam, you often see
stores display the sign "Tax Free Shopping", but even in my small town of Oldenburg where I
like to shop for clothes at the store "Leffers" during my visit to Germany,
this works as advertised.

<pic images/customs-global-blue.ps Customs office on the left, tax return on the right.">

Now how does this work specifically when you're shopping? At the checkout, you tell the cashier
that you want to shop "Tax Free". Then Leffers in Oldenburg will fill out
a "Global Blue Refund" form by hand, and "Hirmer" in Munich will print an electronic form
for "Planet Tax Free" at the checkout.
It is also important that the original cash register receipt is attached to the
form. Customers must then enter their contact details such as address and
passport number on the form and sign it. Each country has slightly different
rules. In Germany, the customer must be at least 18 years old and have purchased
goods worth a minimum of €50 per transaction.

The second step then happens at customs at the airport. It's a bit tedious to
handle the necessary paperwork before departure at the airport, as it takes
time. But since we always buy so much on our trips to Germany, it does pay off.
Now, where the departing traveler receives the export customs stamp depends on
the airport and also whether the goods are carried in carry-on luggage or
checked-in luggage. Also, the customs officer might want to inspect the goods.
We have been doing "Tax-Free Shopping" for years and had to open our goods
twice in front of the customs officer. And we've observed stressed travelers
frantically unpacking their suitcases to find the goods when the customs
officer demands it.  Experienced travelers like us, of course, pack everything
easily accessible in a designated suitcase.

Travelers usually first goes to the check-in counter of their airline at the
airport. They check in their luggage and receive the baggage tag, but tell the
counter agent, before the luggage disappears on the conveyor belt into the
bowels of the airport, that they have "Tax-Free Shopping" in their luggage and
still have to go to customs. They get their luggage reissued and now haul it
through the airport, until they reach the customs counter, which may be quite a
distance from the airline's check-in counter. After waiting in line there, and
saying a quick prayer that there isn't someone before them in line who will
hand the customs officer a stack of incomplete forms, or whose goods cannot be
found in their suitcase. We've seen everything! At the customs counter, you
then hand the customs officer the "Tax-Free Forms" and your passport. The
customs officer then stamps the departure certificate on the form, and
hopefully does not see the need to inspect every pair of underwear or socks
that were purchased. Right then and there, the luggage is then placed onto a
conveyor belt in the customs office, from where it enters the bowels of the
airport on its way to be loaded onto the plane. I always cross my fingers that
the luggage then does not disappear mysteriously somewhere in the airport
building and will actually ends up on the correct aircraft.

<pic images/tax-free-hirmer.ps (#7) Tax-Free form issued by the store>

Another option is to carry purchased items in carry-on luggage, provided they
fit. However, it is important to note that in this case, customs inspection
will take place after the security line. This can be confusing and I have also
experienced being directed to the wrong customs office in the main hall before.
With carry-on luggage, one goes through security first, then passport control
for departure, and finally finds the customs office on the other side. There,
the procedure is similar to the one described above, with the difference that
of course one does not put the hand luggage on a conveyor belt, but takes it on
the flight. Incidentally, on my last trip, the customs officer asked me if I
had two passports. How did he know that? Because I had presented my American
passport for tax-free purchases, but had shown my German passport
exit passport control beforehand. Big brother is watching you.

Now here comes the final step. Unless you want to receive your reimbursement on
your next trip to Germany, by showing the form with the customs stamp at the
store, large airports like Munich and Frankfurt offer "Global Blue" tax refund booths,
processing the refund for a hefty fee.  Travels can get the refund in cash,
which again requires paying fees.  Those who want dollars instead of Euros
receive an unfavorable exchange rate. Another option is to present your credit
card, on which the refund will then be credited, which is less burdened with
fees and happens relatively quickly.

The refund request can also be sent to Global Blue or Planet Tax Free using a
provided envelope, which takes longer, but it's useful if the counter is not
staffed. Near the
customs office there are special mailboxes for this purpose. However, it always
gives me a little stomach ache to enter my credit card number on the form,
which then goes around the world to reach the offices of Global Blue and Planet
Tax Free, which are located in Slovakia and Poland. Last time, we sent our
request to "Planet Tax Free", and for weeks the money did not appear on
our credit card. Michael had already filed a search request online when
suddenly almost simultaneously the refund appeared on our credit card.

<pic images/tax-free-refund.ps From 97.38 Euros reimbursement came 66.70 dollars on the credit card.>

How much do you actually lose in fees from the reimbursement amount? You can
see in Figure (#7) that from a purchase price of 609.93 Euros at the store, a
total of 97.38 Euros in value-added tax were withheld, which at that time were
106.05 US Dollars. Exactly two months after our trip, 66.70 dollars arrived on
our credit card after all processing and conversion fees had been deducted, so the
processor kept a total of 37% in fees, not exactly a bargain!

@Z: Top product: Cheap Bike Rack

<pic images/bike-on-fit.ps Bicycle rack mounted on our Honda Fit.

<em>Michael</em> Actually, have you noticed these people who carry bicycles on
a rack mounted on the back of their car on the Autobahn? They're really
annoying!  But since I have bought one of these bicycle carriers myself, I see
the situation in a whole different light.

<pic images/bikes-ggb.ps If you're hauling your bike by car, nice routes await!

Due to my knee injury, I couldn't properly walk or hike for months, so I bought a second
bike for Angelika and instead of our strenunous urban hikes, we rode bikes. San
Francisco is not entirely safe for cycling and it is also exhausting because of
its hills, so I looked for a bike rack to mount on the car, to drive to
a flat areas and go on some nice rides.

<pic images/bike-rack-amzn.ps On Amazon, these bike rack is only 35 dollars.>

I found a trunk mounted bike rack on Amazon for $35, consisting of a metal
frame and four straps with metal hooks to secure the rack on the car, by
inserting the hooks into the nooks and crannies by the trunk lid. The design of
the rack is simple yet effective, except in Germany, you would be arrested
immediately if you were caught driving with it on your car on the autobahn.

<pic images/sausalito-no-bikes.ps Sausalito prohibits parking bicycles on sidewalks.>

While shuttling our bikes around, we've discovered interesting new tricks:
usually, if you want to park anywhere in the bay area near a main attraction,
you'll face always-hungry parking meters and lurking meter maids. But if you
have bicycles mounted on your car, you simply park half a mile away in a
residential area, dismount the bikes and cycle to the attraction in about two
minutes, where you can easily store the bikes, for example in front of a
restaurant. Unless, of course, you end up in the city of Sausalito, where there
are signs everywhere that proclaim in draconian words that bicycles may not be
parked on the sidewalk. What a dump!

<pic images/bike-on-integra.ps Bikes mounted onto our Acura Integra>

The bike mount fits on both of our cars, one of which has a trunk and the other
one has a rear hatch, but the design is versatible enough to fit both. You
shouldn't be worried about scratching your car's clear coat either, as the
rack's metal hooks fit snugly at the seams of the trunk or hatch,  and may even
rattle when turning corners, but so far I haven't noticed any damage. Of
course, this could also be due to the fact that we have long since passed the
stage where new scratches would bother us with our old cars. All in all ...
another Top Product!

Greetings from San Francisco

Angelika and Michael
