San Francisco, 12-20-2023

@Z: APEC in San Francisco: Biden is visiting

<pic images/apec-fence-door-open.ps During the APEC conference, the streets of San Francisco were blocked off with barriers.>

<em>Angelika</em> Even German newspapers have written a lot about the decline
of San Francisco this year, and especially Downtown San Francisco was
characterized as an apocalyptic place where only homeless and drug addicts
wander through the streets. It's not quite that bad yet, although it is
true that San Francisco's downtown has been struggling with horrific
problems that have exacerbated during the pandemic, and then continued
into a downward spiral.

Since the pandemic, over 30% of office buildings in San Francisco's downtown
area have been vacant, coinciding with new trends like remote work on three
days of the week. Many companies have downsized their offices, leading to fewer
people frequenting the shops in downtown San Francisco or buying and eating
lunch there, which then leads to more shop closures due to a lack of customers.
A vicious cycle.

Even before the pandemic, cities worldwide have struggled with the concept of a
downtown shopping district, primarily due to the boom of e-commerce. San
Francisco compensated for this quite well pre-COVID and lockdown by attracting
tourists and conferences that filled up hotel rooms in downtown and kept nearby
stores afloat. And as long as the city's tax revenues was stable, city
politicians blissfully ignored complaints from companies, like those hosting
large conventions regularly at the Moscone Center, who threatened to take their
conferences elsewhere if San Francisco didn't fix its safety problems. After
all, convention attendees shouldn't have to navigate between tents on public
sidewalks or painstakingly avoid stepping into used needles.

The situation now is that although tourists are slowly returning to the city,
the vacancy rate of offices has not significantly improved. The Fentanyl crisis
raging in downtown San Francisco, especially in the adjacent Tenderloin
district, has made the decades-long homelessness crisis even worse. It
will take years, if not decades, to see structural change. As of recently,
the city has been relying on superficial improvements and enhancements like 
building a central skatepark as mentioned below.

<pic images/apec-fence-bike.ps Your USArundbrief reporters exploring the situation behind the fence.>

For the APEC conference (Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation), which took place
mid-November at the Moscone Center in downtown San Francisco, this machinery
was running at full speed and was already taking on almost grotesque forms. San
Francisco was not only expecting high-ranking diplomats but also US President
Biden and Chinese President Xi Jinping in the city. As is customary when guests
are expected, everything was spruced up and polished like there's no tomorrow.
In the process, many issues were swept under the rug - all good, as long
as the dirt wasn't visible anymore.
This brings back memories of my teenage years when I used to stash everything
away into my wardrobe so that my room looked neat and tidy.

<pic images/apec-moscone.ps The conference took place at the Moscone Center, which was sealed off.>

San Francisco's officials in not only ensured that Biden and Xi Jinping did not
see any tents with homeless people. Even the graffiti disappeared overnight,
there were no more trash strews around in the streets and even the streetlights
received a new coat of paint. Due to the strict security measures, workers then
swiftly fenced off the entire area around the Moscone Center. The
population of San Francisco was puzzled as to how it could be that the city was 
suddenly cleaned up overnight for high-ranking visitors, where
previously no one cared for years.

Funnily enough, our governor, Gavin Newsom,
<LINK>https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u07HdmSNQXA|admitted orchestrating this charade|Newsom admits charade</LINK>,
although only by ways of a Freudian slip, saying "Oh, they're just cleaning
up this place because all those fancy leaders are coming to town. That's true,
because it's true." We were laughing pretty hard.

@Z: Island in the Bay: Treasure Island

<pic images/ti-map.ps The two islands in the center of the Baybridge.>

<em>Michael</em> Driving eastward from San Francisco, i.e.
towards Oakland, you'll find yourself on the busy freeway I-80 that 
leads over the Bay Bridge.
The bridge consists of two sections: the western section that leaves San
Francisco and the eastern section that connects it to the other side of the bay in
Emeryville. Almost exactly at the center of the bridge, which spans
an impressive five miles total, it is propped up on an island in the bay,
called "Yerba Buena Island". This mini-island is also connected to another,
larger island named "Treasure Island" via a short road that leads over the
water at sea level (Figure (#4)).

<pic images/treas-aerial.ps (#4) On top: Yerba Buena Island, Bottom: Treasure Island>

Yerba Buena Island used to be home to a fishing village of the then-residing
Ohlohne Indians in the Bay Area. Around 1870 (i.e., after the Gold Rush) the
military seized the island and since 1936, the Bay Bridge has been using it as
a midway pillar. For an exhibition called "Golden Gate International
Exposition" held in 1939, city planners had the idea to fill in the shallow
waters north of Yerba Buena with debris and created the artificial island known
as "Treasure Island."

<pic images/ti-bike-lady.ps Treasure Island offers panoramic views of the San Francisco skyline.>

Treasure Island officially belongs to the city of San Francisco, but so far
only welfare recipients and government employees have lived in the squalid row
houses located there. In addition, the ground is completely contaminated due to
deposits from when the island was used as a military training ground. Anyone
who wants to rent a residence there must contractually waive the risk.

<pic images/ti-housing.ps Old project housing built on contaminated ground>

Recently, the eastern part of the Bay Bridge had to be demolished and rebuilt
in order to protect it against earthquakes. Local bicyclist groups took
advantage of this opportunity and demanded a bike path for the
newly built section, separated from the bridge highway with four lanes per
direction for car traffic.

<pic images/ti-a-bridge.ps Riding a bicycle from Emeryville onto the Bay Bridge.>

Since shortly after the bridge renovation was completed in 2013, enthusiasts
are permitted to ride a bike or walk from the small town of Emeryville, which
borders Oakland, onto the eastern span of the bridge. Skateboards and
rollerblades are prohibited, however!  At the western end of the eastern span,
though, there used to be a hard stop - the path down to the island was blocked
due to construction until 2016.  Since then, however, the entire path is now
open, and you can proceed from Emeryville in approximately 30 minutes (it takes
about two hours to walk, one way) via the bike and pedestrian path up onto the
bridge, over to the center section, and then descend down onto Yerba Buena Island.

<pic images/ti-exit.ps Little trust-inspiring bicycle paths on Yerba Buena>

The bicycle path is located on the southern side of the Bay Bridge highway and
leads down to Yerba Buena Island on a steep path. From there, you can procceed
to Treasure Island by climbing a steep hill, descending onto the access road,
and crossing over in just a few minutes.  On the larger of the two islands, you
can find old military barracks, but also cute bungalows, football fields, a
whiskey distillery and several good restaurants.

<HTMLONLY>
<pic images/treas-ducks.ps Soccer field with ducks on Treasure Island>
</HTMLONLY>

For knowledgeable car drivers, the island has actually always been accessible,
provided that you took the appropriate exit in the tunnel at the center of the
bridge. A top secret tip for our visitors! With the now complete bicycle path
from Emeryville to Treasure Island, I'm surprised no bike rental companies have
stepped up to consider offering guided or unguided tours, a business which has
been successful in the city for years. As always, people snap up my ideas and
follow my lead!

<pic images/ti-housing-new.ps New apartment buildings on the island offer living space.>

The city of San Francisco has big plans for Treasure Island: As the City
Council decided over 12 years ago, there will be housing for 19,000 residents,
most of them crammed into unattractive apartment blocks, the Vancouver model.
Furthermore, due to the limited space in our city because of its peninsular
shape, calls for more accommodation are growing louder, as this is supposed to
bring rents down - which, of course, is utter nonsense, perpetuated by high
flying romancers who are detached from actual economics, which we are used to
in San Francisco.

@Z: German Christmas Market in Mountain View

<pic images/gsmvxmas-crowd.ps Poetic atmosphere at the German School's Christmas market in Mountain View.>

<em>Angelika</em> Michael always calls me Christmas Mouse. I stand for that, I
find Christmas great with everything that belongs to it. That has actually
always been like that. I love decorating the apartment for Christmas. Even in
the bathroom we have Christmas decorations. I always make my own Advent wreath
and there is a candle here and a candle there. That's how I want it,
that's how it has to be. And of course, a real Christmas tree cannot be
missing.

In the United States, many people also celebrate Christmas, but since the
population is diverse, other important holidays like Chanukka are also
celebrated. Therefore, public institutions such as public schools, usually
refrain from putting certain holidays of religious origin at the center, as the
American Constitution stipulates a separation between church and state. Of
course, there are always grey areas.

This year I am fully into the Christmas spirit thanks to my job at the German
School of Silicon Valley. There were Advent calendars and Advent wreaths in
every classroom. The children opened the calendar's little doors and made stars
out of the beautiful gold foil paper that I remember from my childhood days. I
heard traditional songs like "Kling Glöckchen" and "Schneeflöckchen,
Weißröckchen", but also the earworm "In der Weihnachtsbäckerei" by Rolf
Zuckowski or English songs such as "Up on the Housetop".

<pic images/gsmvxmas-schmuck.ps A craftsmanship stand was also well received.>

The absolute highlight was, however, the school's Christmas market, which happened
this year on December 9th. The proceeds of the market go to the school. Initially, I
thought there would be just a few booths with handmade items, but I was wrong. The
market was just like a German Christmas market in terms of size and range of
goods on offer. There was gluhwein, bratwurst, Christmas decorations from the
Ore Mountains, gingerbread, Stollen, jewellery, craftwork. I couldn't believe
it. The market is completely organised by volunteers from the school and the
festive treats are actually imported by ship container from Germany. The market
has been running for over 10 years and unfortunately had to be cancelled last
year due to a severe storm and was also affected by the Coronavirus pandemic
two years earlier.

<pic images/gsmvxmas-ambooth.ps USArundbrief reporter team selling gingerbread.>

This year the atmosphere was so lively. The sun shone from the sky, and
everything went great. The market took place on the town square in Mountain
View, the city where our school is located. It was bustling with activity and
people were standing in line for gluhwein and bratwurst like crazy.
Michael and I had volunteered to work a shift at the sweets and baked goods stand.
We sold chocolate sticks, dominoes, speculaas, printen, and more. We could
hardly keep up with the customers. It was great fun and by the end of the day,
almost everything had been sold.

@Z: Flowers Pots Against Wild Camping

<pic images/tent-division.ps Flower pots to deter illegal sidewalk campers.>

<em>Michael</em> Unfortunately, the city of San Francisco's administration has
been unable to prevent illegal campers from occupying the sidewalks of the city
for years with their tents. Sidewalk camping, of course, is illegal, but timid
city supervisors are hesitant to take action to address the issue.

<pic images/tb-planters-close.ps All sidewalk space occupied by flower pots>

Industrious residents however came up with the idea some time ago, to install
massive flower planters on the sidewalks in front of their homes, which is indeed
also illegal, but the city council notoriously shies away from any form of
conflict and therefore refrained from taking any action against this
countermovement either.

<pic images/tb-mech.ps This auto repairshop must tolerate the illegal sidewalk camper.>

The system seems to be working. The massive aluminum planters, which are over
eight feet long and three feet wide and cost over 200 Dollars each (I call them
"flower coffins") take up so much space on the sidewalk that there's
essentially none left for illegal camping. It appears that the floral citizens
wait until the city gets around cleaning up a portion of the
sidewalk, forcing campers to move their stuff to the next block. Then the
vigilantes move in under cover of night with their planters, to swiftly barricade
the temporarily open space.

<pic images/tb-bus-stop.ps This bus stop used to be occupied by illegal tents.>

By now these planters are spreading like mushrooms from the ground, the
manufacturer must set records. When driving through our neighboring district of
The Mission, which is almost overgrown with tents, one can already see hundreds of
these planters sitting on the sidewalks. Sometimes they even stand in closed
areas, presumably as material for the next night and fog operation.

<pic images/tb-planter.ps Wild campers keeping a distance from the planter>

That must be tasted on the tongue: While the city, as an example, mercilessly
punishes illegal parking by issueing expensive tickets, it fails to prevent
illegal campers from blocking the sidewalks for pedestrians. Even wheelchair
users now have to move into the street to avoid the occumpants, the strewn
around trash and unleashed fighting dogs. The fact that no one has yet filed a
lawsuit for non-compliance with California's very strict accessibility
regulations surprises me honestly. Or maybe not. And the solution is that
taxpaying citizens buy flower pots at their own expense to restore human
conditions. You really can't make this up.

<pic images/tb-trash.ps The residents are upset about strewn around trash on the sidewalk.>
<pic images/folsom-fire.ps The San Francisco Fire Department had to go out at midnight to put out this tent fire.>

And, unsurprisingly, so-called homeless advocates immediately protested against the
planters as being <LINK>https://sfstandard.com/2023/09/21/san-francisco-planters-dubbed-hostile-architecture-what-locals-say|Homeless-hostile architecture</LINK> and accused
the vigilantes as heartless right wing goons. Oh well. What more concerning actually
is that these campers seem to be handling their warming fires rather carelessly,
and
<LINK>https://sfstandard.com/2024/02/07/san-francisco-homeless-encampment-fires|have set several trees and buildings on fire</LINK>.
Fortunately, San Francisco maintains a well trained fire department (SFFD).

<HTMLONLY>
<pic images/fire-octavia.ps (#1) This construction site went up in flames by a homeless fire>
</HTMLONLY>

However, SFFD arrived too late at the scene of a
<LINK>https://sfstandard.com/2023/08/07/residents-fume-over-lack-of-answers-about-massive-san-francisco-fire|fire in an unfinished building</LINK> located on Octavia Street: the entire wooden structure burned down and only metal poles of the scaffolding remained.

<pic images/tb-sidewalk.ps This campsite is no longer accessible to hikers.>

@Z: San Francisco Civic Center Plaza

<pic images/skater-city-hall.ps The farmers market had to give way, now the plaza is a skate park.>

<em>Angelika</em> Many of San Francisco's problems are self-inflicted and have
accumulated over years. This happens because there is no opposition on the city
council. All members belong to the Democratic Party, and their stances on policy
only differ in terms of how progressive they are. At first glance, one might think
that a council that is firmly in the hands of one party would get a lot done,
but unfortunately, this is not the case. On the contrary: The most
absurd ideas are being implemented, and there are no opposing voices to insist
on checking whether the measures actually work or are just a waste money.

The redesign of San Francisco's City Hall Plaza (specifically a portion of the
UN Plaza) in the city's center is a good example. You should know that in San
Francisco, City Hall borders on a rather seedy neighborhood called the
Tenderloin. Since we have lived here, drug dealers have been selling on the
plaza in front of City Hall. Loyal reader of our publication may remember that
I worked in the Tenderloin for quite some time many years ago. During my active
time in the neighborhood, there were a lot of undercover cops who caught drug
dealers and then arrested them.

Later, the city entered a critical phase where drug dealers were
simply allowed to operate freely, because supposedly according to some
supervisors, they were just poor chaps who should not be arrested,
no matter how many fatal overdose victims they caused by their drug business.
Fast forward a few years, and the fentanyl crisis has made
the situation by an order of magnitude worse, resulting in San Francisco having more
drug-related deaths than coronavirus deaths even during pandemic times. Also, the
numbers of drug-related deaths have continued to rise even after the pandemic.
So far in 2023, there have been <LINK>https://abc7news.com/san-francisco-record-overdose-deaths-fentanyl-wastewater-drug-testing/14186379|752 drug-related deaths</LINK>,
most of them caused by fentanyl overdoses.

<pic images/ccenter-wheel.ps Wheelchair Willy has always been a regular at the Civic Center.>

Then again, we'll have elections in the city next year and there is a growing
sense of panic among those representatives because many residents of San
Francisco have become increasingly frustrated with their politicians'
laissez-faire attitude. Coincidentally, we've noticed a frenzy wave of
actionism initated by those panicking politicians, inspired by the motto "Our
city needs to be more beautiful."

In the context of this program, UN Plaza, a part of the City Hall Plaza,
recently received two million dollars worth of cosmetic surgery. The city
council decided it was time to evict the drug dealers from the plaza and chose
to build a small skatepark instead.  Additionally, there are table tennis
tables, foosball tables, and some fitness machines available for public use, as
well as Zumba classes. At first glance, there is nothing wrong with this, but I
don't quite understand why a skatepark would scare away drug dealers.

<pic images/skater-home.ps Skater going home from the skatepark after a session.>

And then there's another problem. For over 40 years, a weekly market has been
held twice a week on the UN Plaza in front of City Hall. This is an important
source of fresh produce at reasonable prices for residents of the Tenderloin
neighborhood, as there is no supermarket in the area. The market had to move
due to renovation and is now located on the other side of UN Plaza.  However,
the temporary location is much smaller, so many vendors have had to reduce
their booth sizes. They were of course not enthusiastic about not being
consulted on the redesign plans at all. Furthermore, they cannot park their
vans behind their stands anymore and must now park them further away, which is
a high risk in a city where car windows are broken instantly if even a cable is
visible inside.  This would be a problem that needs to be addressed, but as
mentioned, only superficial improvements are being made before the elections.

@Z: Registering at The Public Library

<pic images/sfpl-presidio.ps The grandiose architeture of the Presidio library.>

Francisco with no less than 31 different neighborhood branches? The system of
borrowing a book from the shelf of a musty public institution has been familiar
to me since my childhood days in Germany. In San Francisco, I had not managed
to obtain a library card in over twenty years, but now that I have some
breathing room, I thought: let's try it out.

<pic images/sfpl-card.ps (#5) Michael's libary card with cat motif>

So I went to a branch of the San Francisco Public Library (SFPL) in our
neighborhood on Jersey Street, showed my driver's license and said "What's a
guy gotta do around here to get a library card?" or something similar, anyway I
wanted to imitate Kramer from Seinfeld as much as possible. The lady behind the
counter entered my data into the computer, confirmed that my address was in
San Francisco and asked me what motif i wanted on my future four-year, free library
card. Portraits of any left-wing political heroes maybe? I decided to go with
the cute cat motif (Picture (#5)).

In an impromptu briefing, I learned that the loan period for books is three
weeks and one can extend it five times (if no other bookworm has reserved the
book with a so-called "Hold"). Also, the maximum number of books that a person
can borrow at the same time surprised me: up to 100 books! I presume you'd have
to bring your own wheel barrel or shopping cart in this case.  Books can be
returned at in any (!) branch, either by placing them on the librarian's table
or by dropping them into the mailbox downstairs.

<pic images/sfpl-noe.ps Even in our small neighborhood, there is a branch of the city library.>

Most of the books in the branch are outdated snores, not even classic American
novelists, rather like the grab bag of the bookstore. An exception is the shelf
labeled "Lucky Day," where new releases from major publishing houses are on
display.
There one can find (with luck) biographies about Elon Musk, or that quack book
by Prince Harry, or even the latest New York Times bestsellers like "Chip
Wars." However, one cannot extend the loan period of these sought-after books.

<pic images/sfpl-obama.ps In the section "Lucky Day," the library features new releases.>

I have already borrowed myself a few copies and was very satisfied. Books that
you can of course buy for $20, but a man like me has to count the pennies!
Moreover, it forces one to adhere to the deadline, I'm not a fast reader and a
book with 300 pages in three weeks time is already quite a stretch for me.

<pic images/libby-add.ps (#8) With one button press, Libby sends the book to your Kindle.>

There's also a DVD rack, but who watches DVDs these days? And of course, even
the ole city public library has embraced  progress with digital books.
Highly recommended! With the "Libby" app on your smartphone, you can choose
your library and download a book that the library can lend a limited number of
copies. Then swoosh and tap, and the book will appear in
Amazon's Kindle universe (#8), where you can read it with any Kindle reader.
For three weeks.

<pic images/libby-ended.ps (#7) After the loan period has expired, the book will be withdrawn.>

After the three-week deadline, Libby and then Amazon will take
back the eBook (Figure (#7))! You have to imagine this: To adhere to
the old concept of publishers from long ago that finance the production of a
book through sold copies, the library must wrestle the digital copy from the
reader who may not even be finished with it yet, so that too many copies are
in circulation! I once had to press the emergency shutdown button on the network
to be able to read the last pages of a book in peace. We live in strange times.

@Z: Victorinox Travel Bread Knife

<pic images/vic-cut.ps The knife cuts through bread like butter.>

<em>Michael</em> One day I will write a comprehensive guide on typical AirBnB
accommodations and their lack of home accessories. Clothes hangers, for
example. Where do you hang your jacket besides the apartment door when there is
no appropriate hook available? Or in general storage space. According to my
planned compendium "Now we are setting up our AirBnB rental unit," there should
always be a small table or cupboard in the entrance area, or perhaps a shelf that
provides space for utensils that one should always have at hand in a foreign
residence: keys, wallets, phones, and their chargers.

<pic images/vic-drawer.ps Typical Airbnb kitchen setup: No bread knife>

A common problem with this type of accommodation is the absence of sharp
knives. You have bought a fresh loaf of crunchy sourdough bread and want to cut
it in your rental unilt, but you have to make do with a dull kitchen knife and
ruin the whole lovely bread. That doesn't have to be!

<pic images/vic-order.ps The knife can be had for 24 Dollars on Amazon.>

Okay, Americans are laughing now naturally about my problems, because they buy
their bread already cut in 99 percent of all cases. But also for other food
products, having a sharp knife on hand during your travels pays off nicely. Alas, you can't take monster kitchen knives with you on
a trip without causing a stir at the airport, besides, one must always pad and
wrap the sharp edges safely, to avoid any accidents.

<pic images/vic-fold.ps Securely folded for transport>

One day on Amazon, I stumbled upon a foldable bread knife by Victorinox, the
well-known Swiss matador of the art of making quality kitchen knives. This particular knife
is not long, the blade is only 4.3 inches, probably due to some safety
regulations so that lunatics don't get any ideas. However, since the blade
stays locked in the open position and the serrated edge is very sharp, you can
easily slice through fresh bread, even German style sourdough with a murderous
crust, without even a crumb falling off to the side. There it is, the slices
will look amazingly clean and appetizing. The knife has earned a permanent spot
on my travel list and has been with us on every trip since. Top product!

@Z: USPS Mailboxes Need Security Upgrades

<pic images/usps-mb-wide.ps In the past, one could easily insert thick envelopes into USPS mailboxes with a flap.>

<em>Michael</em> The blue mailboxes of the United States Postal Service
differ from the yellow ones in Germany in that one could insert letters and even
small parcels by opening a relatively large flap at the top, placing the mail
or parcel on top of it, and then snapping the flap shut, launching the postage item
into the interior. Sadly, this is now history!

Apparently, <LINK>https://www.nytimes.com/2019/03/21/nyregion/mailbox-theft-fishing.html|Criminals from the New York Bronx|Postage-Theft"</LINK> found out years ago,
that the content inside the mailboxes could be extracted out by lowering a sticky
insect trap on a string into the mailbox through the flap, and pulling out any
postage items that got entangled with the trap.

<pic images/usps-mailbox-letter.ps Finally, only narrow letters go into secure slits.>

This trend now appears to have arrived in our increasingly disorderly San
Francisco, with rising complaints from postal customers indicating that mailbox theft
is on the rise. In response, the United States Postal Service was forced to
replace the old blue mailboxes with newer, more secure ones. Instead of a
drop-off slot, these new mailboxes have a narrow opening that is secured by
metal teeth and can only be used for depositing flat letters. This technology was
previously only known to me from mailboxes in Germany belonging to millionaire
urbanites and slot-type bank safes for cash heavy businesses.

<HTMLONLY>
<pic images/usps-post-office.ps Small packages now require a trip to the post office.>
</HTMLONLY>

Mail theft was relatively rare until a few years ago. It has
always been considered a federal crime. If a mail thief is caught, it is not
necessarily a local prosecutor who takes action, but rather a more stringent
federal official, and the offense is tried in a federal court. However, the
federal authorities seem to be less willing in recent times to investigate such
offenses. There's even a growing number of reports of
<LINK>https://www.sfgate.com/bayarea/article/delivering-mail-san-francisco-oakland-robberies-18518133.php|mail carriers being robbed on their routes</LINK>,

What interesting, though, is that instead of legally intervening and bringing a
few mail thieves to justice, the Postal Service now reduces the size of the
mailbox slots. This inconveniences the majority of ordinary citizens, who could
previously insert smaller packages into the mailbox, and must now travel to the
next post office for every padded envelope.

<pic images/mailbox.ps (#2) A burglar broke into our apartment building's mailbox.>

Even our apartment building was recently hit by mail thieves: One night in
November, they broke into the intercom system outside the lobby door, opened
the front door and then pried open the combined mailbox for all tenants (Figure
(#2)). Usually postal workers carry the master key for these boxes to open them
at the top and drop mail into individual slots. Our property management reacted
quickly had everything repaired within a day.  A report was made to police, but
it is highly likely that nothing will come of it due to too much bureaucracy
and too little prospect of success.

Reporting live from the city under criticism.

Michael and Angelika
