San Francisco, den 24.12.2023

@Z: Christmas 2023

<pic images/xmas-2023.ps Christmas Greetings from San Francisco>

<em>Angelika</em>
Tradition obligates. Once again this year, I'm
writing the Christmas newsletter at the last minute on Christmas Eve, but it's
also a good way to reflect a little before the tree gets decorated. Also, 2023
was marked by global political crises and environmental catastrophes. It feels
like we're all sitting on a powder keg. But the Christmas story is a story full
of hope, even if one is not religious. A person is born in a humble stable and
tries to change the world with peaceful means.

In the last newsletter, I admitted that I really enjoy celebrating Christmas
and I'm also one of those people who enjoy giving Christmas presents. I strive
to find something nice that brings joy to the recipient. It may not always
succeed, but the intention is always there. For years, I diligently and
joyfully packed parcels for Christmas and sent them to Germany until the German
customs really made it difficult for me. Every once in while, customs opened
of my parcels for inspection, but since they were always properly labeled with a
customs declaration and clearly marked as gift shipments, they never charged
fees.

Because gifts worth up to 45 euros sent from private individuals residing in the USA to
Germany are exempt from import duties. By the way, the odd number of 45 euros
came about because at the introduction of the Euro, the previous maximum value of
100 DM was converted. Also interesting is that this threshold has not been
adjusted or increased with in inflation in all these years.

Since the boom in online commerce, more and more people in Germany have been ordering goods from
non-European countries, such as cool T-shirts from America. Now, customs
rightly distinguishes between commercial goods and gifts, and import duties
usually apply to commercial goods to avoid disadvantaging the domestic economy.
Now, creative online retailers who didn't want to pay the custom fees thought, "I'll
just check 'gift' box on the customs declaration." This practice became so
widespread that stricter standards were put in place in the European Union
since July 2021.

What happened was that the carriers, such as the postal service or other parcel
delivery services like UPS, were made agents of the German customs agency.
They're now obligated to decide for every single shipment if it really is a
gift or a commercial shipment, based on the electronic customs declaration.
When in doubt, they seem to assume initially that the goods were only declared
as a gift but are not actually a gift. In this case, the postal service or
courier service may add a processing fee for this alleged service, and then
impose import duties, usually import sales tax, often unlawfully.  The
recipient in Germany is then required to pay these charges, otherwise the
German postal service will not hand over the package.

That's certainly super annoying and embarrassing when you intend to give a
gift, and the recipient ends up having to pay for it. Often, as the giver, you
don't even know about it because these aren't exorbitant amounts, and the recipient
politely won't mention it. They often don't even realize that the charges
shouldn't actually be paid, but remain silent and pay up. In my opinion,
this is exactly what the German customs are aiming for. On the customs website,
it casually states that the customer can claim back unlawfully levied charges
by filling out a form, but who bothers to do that for six or seven euros,
especially since you won't get back the processing fee charged by the postal
service anyway? Argh! What I find sad about this is that once again, honest
people end up bearing the consequences when others engage in shady dealings.
It's just not fair.

So, if there are any customs officers or postal workers reading this (and of
course, the politicians pushing through such regulations in the European
Parliament), please consider the people who simply want to send a gift to bring
joy to someone. There must be a way to make that work with reasonable effort.

To all you dear newsletter readers, we wish that today you receive at least one
gift that makes you jump for joy.

In this spirit, Merry Christmas!

Angelika und Michael
