San Francisco, 10-31-2024

@Z: American Election Fever

<pic images/vote-president.ps Who should become president, Trump or Harris?>

<em>Angelika</em> The USA is in the final stages of the election campaign, and
newspaper writers are typing their fingers to the bone. We are already quite
exhausted from all the debates, analyses, and forecasts. Many have asked us for
our assessment since we live in this country. Who will win, Harris or Trump?
This may sound a bit offhand, but the chances are still 50-50 for both. We
can't provide any smarter analyses either. It's very close. The decision for
Biden to step aside in July was necessary and important, but unfortunately, it
came a bit too late. I would have at least wished for an open Democratic
convention where not only Kamala Harris was nominated, but also other
candidates, for whom the delegates could have cast their votes. But no one asks
me.

<pic images/harris-lawn-sign.ps This homeowner votes Democratic.>

And it's not about convincing the Democratic voters in California or New
York, but rather the undecided ones in the middle of the country. And Kamala
Harris is, after all, associated with Biden's policies and, as Vice President,
had extremely low approval ratings in polls at times. However, these have since
improved and are now
<LINK>https://news.gallup.com/poll/649127/democrats-give-harris-nearly-unanimous-positive-ratings.aspx|just under 50%|Approval ratings for Harris</LINK>.
According to the New York Times, one in six voters still did not know in
October for whom they would cast their vote on November 5th. This group also
includes voters who ultimately decide not to vote at all because they cannot
warm up to either Harris or Trump, or who, in protest, write in a joke
candidate on the ballot. Interestingly, Robert Kennedy's name is still on the
California ballots, even though he officially withdrew his candidacy, but the
ballots had already been printed.

<pic images/trump-sign-kauai.ps In San Francisco, it's hard to find, therefore Trump advertising from Hawaii.>

Our voter ballots are already on our living room table because in California, since the
pandemic, we automatically receive mail-in voting materials. We also have piles
of pamphlets accumulating in our apartment, and every day I receive text
messages asking me to donate to Kamala Harris. I have no idea where they got my
mobile number. In these text messages, I'm often addressed as Henry. Hmm.

Living in an already decided state, we never get presidential campaign advertisements.
The brochures that clog our mailbox daily are about the local elections, because in
California and San Francisco, voters can once again decide on numerous
propositions. And there's a mayoral election in San Francisco, which the
international press isn't reporting on because the presidential election is too
much in the spotlight.

<pic images/harris-sign-miraloma.ps A fan of Kamala Harris and Tim Walz.>

Actually, we were supposed to have the mayoral election in November 2023, but
with the passing of Proposition H in 2022, voters decided that mayoral
elections should now always coincide with presidential elections, as it is
hoped this will lead to higher voter turnout. San Francisco has been grappling
with several issues for quite some time. Downtown has been desolate since the
pandemic and just isn't recovering. The crime rate is high, with break-ins in
homes and cars, large-scale shoplifting, homeless tent cities on sidewalks, and
the fentanyl crisis significantly reducing the quality of life for many in the
city. Many voters are fed up with the status quo and want change.

Politics in this city is indeed complicated. Ultimately, there is no opposition
in the city council; instead, politicians are categorized as either moderate or
left-leaning Democrats. It should be noted that by San Francisco standards, a
moderate Democrat here would probably be considered a leftist in other parts of
the USA. Politicians in San Francisco also frequently struggle with accusations
of corruption. There is an inflated bureaucratic jungle and little oversight to
ensure that tax dollars are used as intended.

<pic images/voter-guide.ps Those seeking advice read various 'Voter Guides'.>

And that's not all: In addition to the President of the USA and the Mayor of
San Francisco, a good dozen other offices are also up for election: Among
others, the sheriff, the chairpersons of the school board, the director of the
subway (BART), and several city council members, who will only receive votes
from voters residing in their respective districts.

@Z: Election in one go: Ranked Choice.

<pic images/vote-mayor.ps The mayoral candidates are being assigned ranks.>

<em>Angelika</em> San Francisco has an interesting voting system, namely the
so-called
<LINK>https://ballotpedia.org/Ranked-choice_voting_(RCV)|"Ranked Choice Voting"</LINK>.
Roughly and simply put, the voter ranks all the candidates in order of
preference. The candidate they like the most is placed first, the second choice
in second place, and so on.  This initially sounds simple, but it has its
pitfalls, as I will explain in more detail shortly. Such an election process
prevents run-off elections, but it is often criticized as being too complicated
or opaque.

<pic images/noe-valley-store-signs-1.ps Our donut shop is in election fever.>

But how exactly does it work in San Francisco? The voter can rank up to 10
candidates in order of preference. In our mayoral election this year, there are
13 candidates running. However, the ranking stops at 10. Each eligible voter
can rank as many (up to 10) or as few candidates as they wish. Each candidate
must have a different ranking on the ballot, and the same candidate can only
receive one ranking.

<pic images/ranked-choice.ps A ranked-choice process over six rounds>

How is the counting done? First, it is counted how many times each
individual candidate has landed in first place among the voters. If a candidate
achieves the majority in this round (i.e., more than 50%), that candidate wins.
The counting is then finished. If there is no winner after this first round of
counting, the candidate with the fewest votes is eliminated. If a voter had
indicated this candidate as their first choice, their second preference is then
counted as their new first choice.

If a candidate receives more than 50% in the second round, that candidate wins
and the counting is also concluded. If there is no winner again in the second
round, the candidate with the fewest votes is eliminated once more, and the
rankings are adjusted accordingly. This process continues until a winner is
determined.

<pic images/flyers-mail.ps Some of the pamphlets that have recently landed in our mailbox>

In theory, that sounds logical, but the counting method relies on the voter
actually providing a complete ranking ladder. If a voter, for example, only chooses one
candidate who is eliminated in the first round, the vote is lost. This can
potentially lead to a candidate winning who was not generally favored and who
wins with less than 50% of the votes, due to the previously explained principle
of exhausted ballots. For example, if 200 ballots were cast and 80 of them are
exhausted due to a lack of rankings for the remaining candidates, a candidate
could win with 61 votes. That is more than 50% of the remaining 120 ballots,
but 30.5% of all originally cast ballots.

Who is now entering the race for San Francisco? Out of the list of 13, only 5
are really to be taken seriously. First, there's our current mayor, London
Breed, who wants to try again. Then there's Mark Farrell, who served on the
city council from 2010 to 2018 and acted as interim mayor for half a year in
2018 after the death of the then-incumbent mayor, Ed Lee. Additionally, there's
Ahsha Safaí, also a supervisor on the city council. Then there's Aaron Peskin,
who has shaped city politics on the council for decades and currently serves as
its chair. He has the nickname "Napoleon of North Beach," after the name of the
neighborhood where he lives. He presents himself as particularly left-liberal
but only has his own interests in mind. For example, he claims to support the
creation of housing in San Francisco but consistently blocks construction
projects in his district. He also campaigned on the need for political change
in San Francisco, even though he has been part of the system for over 20 years
as an influential supervisor on the city council. As a voter, you can't help
but feel a bit taken for a ride. Unfortunately, we still see his campaign
posters hanging in many windows.

<pic images/womens-voter-guide.ps The "Women's Voter Guide" recommends ranking London Breed as the first choice and Aaron Peskin as the second choice in the ranked choice voting.>

And then there is the political outsider Daniel Lurie, who has not held any
political office to date, but is connected to a very well-known San Francisco
family, namely that of Levi Strauss. I'm sure you all know who Levi Strauss is.
The man delighted the world with the legendary Levi's jeans. Daniel Lurie has
pumped several million of his own fortune into the election campaign, and it
seems to be paying off, as he is now mixing it up at the forefront. We've been
receiving brochures from Lurie in our mailbox almost every day.

For the mayoral election in San Francisco, we expect that the winner will not
be determined after the first round, but rather that the votes will be mainly
distributed among Breed, Farrell, Lurie, and Peskin. It remains exciting on all
levels.

@Z: The most expensive toilet in America

<pic images/toiletgate-outside.ps This toilet at the town square of Noe Valley originally cost 1.7 million.>

<em>Michael</em> Our neighborhood, Noe Valley in San Francisco, is known to be
almost at the center of the peninsula on which the city spreads out. However,
hardly any tourist knows about our little oasis, a well-preserved small village
with its own marketplace, amidst a decaying city where chaos has reigned for
years due to misguided policies.

<pic images/nv-map.ps Here is our neighborhood Noe Valley on a map of San Francisco.>

On our town square, a weekly market now takes place every Saturday, where
farmers from the surrounding area sell high-quality organic goods to a
well-to-do clientele. During the week, there are small tables with chairs on
the square, where, strangely enough, you hardly see any homeless people lingering.
Instead, it seems to be frequented only by the higher-earning city crowd, who
apparently take a break after strolling through the fashion boutiques on 24th
Street. Amazingly well-behaved children are playing under the supervision of their
nannies on the slide of the playground.

<pic images/toiletgate-construction.ps The newsletter reporter is monitoring the construction work on the famous toilet.>

An idyll, a jewel of urban planning! Only one thing was missing until recently:
a public toilet, as the surrounding restaurants generally only allow guests to
use their facilities for cost reasons. It so happened that in 2018, the
then-supervisor Matt Haney pulled a plan out of his pocket to build the toilet.
But of course, a simple portable toilet cannot stand in the prestigious
marketplace of Noe Valley; we're not at the Wacken Open Air heavy metal
festival! So, several designs were solicited, and the best one was selected and
approved.

The fact that the planned 20-square-meter monument to detoxification was now
supposed to cost a whopping 1.7 million dollars did not deter Supervisor Haney,
because, as is well known, our city requires 42 paid permits for every little
thing, and for any construction project, 17 different unions have their hands
out. This may seem grotesque to you now, but in San Francisco, the Department
of Public Works, the Mayor's Office on Disability, the Arts Commission, the
electricity provider (PG\&E), the city planning committee, and many other
organizations actually charge exorbitant fees for opaque paperwork and
assessments before such a project even takes shape. Furthermore, by law, only
highly qualified union workers are allowed to carry out the construction work.

Nevertheless, Matt Haney had already organized the 1.7 million, with the money
set to come from the city and state tax coffers, and the project was, as they
say, in the bag. Matt Haney had since made a career move, rising from city
council to become a government representative in Sacramento. Surprisingly,
however, our otherwise not at all stingy Governor Gavin Newsom found the toilet
costs to be exorbitant and abruptly cut the state of California's involvement.
This put the project on hold for the time being. A wild hunt for sponsors
began, and a toilet company from Nevada offered to construct the facility for
free. The only problem was that the San Francisco city council had previously
declared with great fanfare that they would no longer do business with states
like Nevada, as Nevada did not fully implement San Francisco's noble LGBTQ
laws. Parbleu!

<pic images/toiletgate-inside.ps The newsletter reporter inspects the interior and finds nothing glamorous.>

With their backs against the wall, the city fathers relaxed their moral demands
on the policies of other states, and the toilet was delivered, with two
different companies taking on not only the construction but also the lion's
share of the union-extracted construction costs. The city contributed only
$200,000, also to unionized construction workers.

Currently, the "Toiletgate" affair has already made waves across the US, and
also a <LINK>https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Noe_Valley_public_toilet|Wikipedia article about the public restroom in Noe Valley</LINK> has existed for some time now
(not written by me, by the way). Nowadays,
when traveling as a California resident to other states, it's not uncommon to be
confronted with such 'typically Californian' nonsense with eye-rolling.

<pic images/toiletgate-nyt.ps Even the New York Times wrote an article about the marketplace toilet in Noe Valley.>

Even the renowned daily newspaper, The New York Times, has already
<LINK>https://www.nytimes.com/2024/04/28/opinion/san-francisco-public-toilet.html|covered the topic|Noe Valley's toilet in the New York Times</LINK>.
And former President Trump recently <LINK>https://x.com/DefiantWorld/status/1834928835672129795|used the topic|Trump talks about Noe Valley's public toilet"</LINK>
as campaign rhetoric, as evidence of failed policies
on the part of the Democratic Party. Being the
roving newsletter reporter in charge, I have recently tested the toilet, which is
only about 500 meters from our house, and I can confirm that it works. However,
I would not classify it as top-notch, as I have seen much more appealing
constructions even on hiking trails in the middle of nowhere.

@Z: Police catch speeders at crosswalk

<pic images/xwalk-chicken-1.ps The police chicken wants to cross the crosswalk, but the speeder won't stop.>

<em>Michael</em> When I'm out and about as a pedestrian, I find California
drivers easier to tolerate than those from other states or even the Germans.
Okay, most Californians can't drive at all, creeping along like five-year-olds,
but thanks to automatic transmissions, the car still moves forward. However,
California drivers simply lack the most basic skills to assess situations in
traffic. Just like someone who is already behind the wheel at the age of five.

But, anyway: they generally drive very cautiously. If they have to stop at a
stop sign or make a turn, they will stop even if a pedestrian is merely
thinking about crossing the intersection at some point in the near future. This
is by no means standard; in other states or even in Germany, pedestrians are
not given priority and cannot blindly cross the street.

However, there is one exception that often makes me rub my eyes here:
crosswalks without stop signs. As a Californian pedestrian, you bravely march
towards the middle of the street and are surprised to find that no driver
stops.

According to the traffic regulations, this is clearly defined: pedestrians have
the right of way at a crosswalk, regardless of whether the driver has a stop
sign or not. Curiously, I asked an American acquaintance about this, and he
explained that it is an unwritten rule that drivers only stop at intersections
with a stop sign, as pedestrians can, in God's name, wait until the car has
passed.

<pic images/xwalk-chicken-2.ps The punishment follows immediately: Police motorcycle chases the speeder.>

This discrepancy between the traffic regulations and the Californian understanding of them was recently investigated by the local police in San Francisco. They stationed a police officer in a giant rooster costume at a crosswalk and instructed him to step onto the crosswalk to cross the street as cars were approaching.

Anyone who did not stop was quickly pursued by a
motorcycle police officer with flashing lights, who forced the speeder to stop
and handed out an expensive ticket. The law enforcers here certainly do not
lack creativity, that must be admitted.
However, <LINK>https://x.com/CollinRugg/status/1837639499247178090|some people immediately got upset</LINK> and accused the SFPD (San
Francisco Police Department) of not addressing the real problems in the city.
The police have it tough in this town; you just can't please the citizens here!

@Z: Good and affordable: Tommy's Joynt

<pic images/tj-vanness.ps West of the Tenderloin district, you will find the restaurant Tommy's Joynt.>

<em>Michael</em> The prices for food in restaurants have noticeably increased
in San Francisco, so it's important to know where you can still eat and drink
well and affordably in our expensive city.

<pic images/tj-counter.ps The man behind the counter is plating the food you order.>

An institution of this kind with a long-standing tradition is Tommy's Joynt,
located on Van Ness Avenue at the intersection with Bush Street. For tourists,
it is somewhat off the beaten path, but still within walking distance from
downtown if one doesn't mind passing through the somewhat rough Tenderloin
district. Tourists are rarely seen in this rustic establishment; instead, it is
mostly working-class people who line up on weekdays as early as 10:45am when the
place opens at 11 a.m.

<pic images/tj-bill.ps Good food at reasonable prices at Tommy's Joynt.>

At Tommy's Joynt, it's self-service. You order your food at the counter, where
the knowledgeable staff slings it onto your plate, and you pay immediately at
the register there. There's all sorts of grilled and roasted meats, with sides
like mashed potatoes or salad.

<pic images/tj-plate.ps The best deal is the so-called "Plate".>

I can recommend the BBQ brisket with potato salad as a so-called "plate,"
for which the place is famous. I can't recommend the sandwiches there; they
lack flair. But such a "plate" is just the right portion for a hungry worker
like myself, and I like to get a beer at the bar, which operates independently and
separately from the counter. You pay your bar tap right there as well.

<pic images/tj-bar.ps The barmaid is pouring draft beer at Tommy's Joynt.>

The whole arrangement takes some getting used to, but at least during the week,
you can always find a free table, and the food is really good. The beer
selection, with certainly 20 drafts on tap, is quite stellar, and the crowd, a
mix of working-class people and local celebrities like me, is definitely worth
seeing.

The most famous customers of the store, by the way, are the members of the band
Metallica, who grew up and became famous in the Bay Area. As young, poor
musicians, they often ate there, supposedly mainly because at Tommy's Joynt you
can take as many pickles as you want from the barrel-sized jar without having
to pay extra. Perhaps there's even a pickle or two in there that James Hetfield
has already touched!

@Z: Top music recommendation: Sierra Eagleson

<pic images/going-to-california.ps The perfect backdrop for the song "Going to California>

<em>Angelika</em> I like listening to music, but I'm not particularly
adventurous when it comes to different genres, and I'm not always up to date
with the latest trends. I'm a bit stuck in my youthful Sturm und Drang years
when it comes to music. I still enjoy listening to the Beatles, Pink Floyd,
Elton John, Supertramp, Billy Joel, Meat Loaf, Herbert Grönemeyer, BAP, Udo
Lindenberg, and so on. It might also be because I generally tend to be
nostalgic.

And with the mentioned music, many memories come up, for example, of legendary
class trips where we danced wildly to the classics of Supertramp. Through
"Spotify" and similar providers, you constantly receive music suggestions that
might match your own taste, and in doing so, you discover new things, which
always makes me happy. Recently, however, I amusingly stumbled upon a musician
I hadn't known before while reading the New York Times, namely Sierra Eagleson.

Bret Stephens, a columnist for the New York Times, regularly suggests either
other worthwhile articles or poems at the end of his articles, or sometimes
even music. He mentioned that he appreciates the interpretation of the Led
Zeppelin song <LINK>https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JzcOW0v17m4|Going to California" by Sierra Eagleson</LINK>. The lyrics describe a journey to California in search of a fresh
start and new experiences, often reflecting themes of longing and adventure.
I actually find it better than the original. Led Zeppelin
is, of course, such a legendary band, especially the song 'Stairway to Heaven,'
which I have listened to over and over. That's why it was clear that I had to
listen to 'Going to California' right away.

It is a moment of pure enjoyment to listen to this piece on a California freeway
at sunrise on the way to work. The acoustic, emotional, calm music style of
Sierra Eagleson, with few instruments (piano or guitar), all played by herself,
immediately appealed to me. Sierra Eagleson is based in Ohio. In addition to
her interpretations of very well-known songs (I can only recommend "Viva la
Vida" by Coldplay to you), she has also composed some songs herself, for
example <LINK>https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cc_1hPfK17w|Darcy's Song</LINK>.
I hope that we will hear more from her and also from her brother
Chase Eagleson, with whom she often plays.

@Z: Heat Wave in October

<pic images/sf-fog.ps In San Francisco, there's often a layer of fog over downtown.>

<em>Angelika</em> San Francisco is known to have a built-in natural air
conditioner, namely the fog. This is extremely practical because the
temperature cools down at night, even after hot days. Overall, San Francisco
has a pleasant, mild climate. It is never scorching hot, but there are many
sunny days with T-shirt weather.

We hope that it stays this way in the future, as we are not equipped for major
heatwaves. Air conditioning in apartments and houses is, for example, very rare
in San Francisco. Traditionally, the weather is warmest in our city in
September/October. There can be the occasional hot day without it cooling down
significantly in the evening. However, this usually doesn't last for more than
two days.

At the beginning of October, we were subjected to a real heatwave. For a week,
it was 30 degrees Celsius during the day, with no trace of fog or wind. The
heat just lingered in the city, and everyone was groaning and moaning, longing
for the fog. The weather forecasters promised us every day that the fog, which
we call "Karl," would soon arrive. But no such luck. It remained hot and muggy.
At night, sweat just ran down our faces. (Note from Michael: In wise foresight,
I had bought two huge construction-grade fans). When the cooling and the fog
finally came, it was almost poetic.

@Z: In-N-Out Burger

<pic images/innout-sign.ps The legendary burger chain In-N-Out Burger>

<em>Michael</em> When it comes to burger joints in America, there is sort of
a three-tier system. If you order a burger in regular restaurants, let's say at a pub
named "Cactus Jack's Bar and Grill," you often get a thicker ground beef patty
on a <LINK>Bhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brioche|"Brioche-Bun"</LINK>
a still somewhat way too fluffy roll, but with a slightly cake-like structure
and a golden-brown sheen. In upscale establishments, the ground meat is often
a freshly minced half-pounder, and you can (and should) order the burger
"medium," if not even "medium rare." However, the galloping inflation has led
to such a dish a) now costing 20 dollars and b) because it should actually cost
more than 30 dollars, but no one would pay that much for a burger, the patties
are getting thinner and thinner.

<pic images/innout-outside.ps Usually there's long lines at In-N-Out Burger>

Then there's the class of run-of-the-mill restaurants in the middle of nowhere
that offer a burger, but the patties were frozen and taste about 10% better
than McDonald's. Additionally, they are nicely arranged on a plate when served
at the table.

<pic images/innout-animal.ps The Double-Double with fries "Animal Style">

Let's now turn to the budget category of fast-food restaurants. Chains like
McDonald's, Burger King, Jack in the Box, and thousands of other regionally
different "restaurants" that are all quite similar, offering cheap but also
squashed, soggy buns in typical fast-food quality. The employees there often
give the impression of being highly annoyed about having reached the lowest
level of the low-wage sector.

<pic images/burger-home-big.ps Burger prepared at home by Michael>

At the top end of these fast-food chains is now In-N-Out Burger, a chain with
an almost religiously fanatical customer base, who are willing to wait in their
cars for half an hour in the drive-through line to order a burger. According to
the advertising, the patties on In-N-Out burgers are never frozen, and the
whole arrangement is neatly presented on the tray. The price of a burger with
two patties and cheese, the so-called Double-Double, is now about 5 dollars.
This is much more expensive than McDonald's, but still within a range where a
working class man can treat themselves and their families to something special.

<pic images/innout-check.ps Not super cheap, but still within reason.>

What stands out at In-N-Out is that they're running a tight ship, and the
employees are zipping around like soldiers.  Everything is sparkling clean, and
the uniforms are as precise as in the military. At the drive-through, you don't
speak your order into some form of intercom; instead, a uniformed employee
briskly comes to your car window and asks with determined friendliness about
your wishes.

Other franchise chains present a downright tragic picture in comparison. The
interior design at In-N-Out is similar to that of other fast-food chains, which
Americans, to my surprise, still call a "restaurant" without hesitation.
However, even though the design of the furniture at In-N-Out evokes that
typical fast-food feeling, one must admit that there is always someone ensuring
that messy tables are immediately cleaned, whereas at McDonald's and similar
places, there is a certain laxity among the staff in this regard. Only the
similarly conservatively managed chain "Chick-fil-A" offers comparable
cleanliness.

<pic images/innout-kitchen.ps The employees are whizzing around behind the counter.>

This may also be due to the fact that In-N-Out pays its employees very well.
Long before politicians in San Francisco mandated the minimum wage to be 20 dollars
per hour, employees at In-N-Out were already earning over 20 dollars.

<pic images/innout-window.ps The inside is super clean.>

The management of the chain has a conservative Christian influence, which can
be seen, among other things, in the fact that Bible verses are always printed
on the bottom of the drink cups, driving the godless ultra-leftists of San
Francisco out of their minds. As a marketing gimmick, the chain also has a "Secret
Menu" that is not visible anywhere inside the restaurant, where you can order your fries
(or even the burger) "Animal Style," for example. The surprised guest will then
find browned onions in a thick sauce on it, which tastes very good but
seemingly clogs your arteries in real-time. This secrecy naturally appeals to
our fashionable hipsters, who wouldn't want to flaunt their insider knowledge
when ordering fast food!

In any case, the chain is a good example that there are indeed functioning
business models in the fast-food chain sector. San Francisco's ultra left political 
class is rubbing their eyes in disbelief that such a thing is possible. 

Greetings from the Land of Cockaigne:

Angelika und Michael
