San Francisco, 12-23-2024

@Z: Hawaii, Once Again

<pic images/kauai-board.ps At Lihue Airport on Kauai, you walk across the tarmac to your scheduled flight.>

<em>Angelika</em> Loyal newsletter readers know that we are big fans of Hawaii.
Before the pandemic, we usually traveled once a year to the island of Oahu, to
the quiet corner near Waimanalo. Then the pandemic hit. Since Hawaii had very
strict quarantine regulations, we stayed away from the islands for a long time.
Eventually, sun-seekers were able to travel to Hawaii again, but prices had risen
significantly after the pandemic, and at times there were no rental cars
available on any Hawaiian island because car rental companies had drastically
reduced their fleets during the pandemic due to the lack of tourists visiting.

<pic images/kauai-surf.ps Surfer Michael with sponsorship deal from Costco>
<pic images/kauai-secret-beach.ps Easy hike on Kauai>

The government of Oahu has further restricted renting of vacation apartments or houses
through platforms like Airbnb or VRBO ("Vacation Rental by Owner"). On October
23, 2022, Bill 41, also known as Ordinance 22-7, came into effect. It now
stipulates that any property outside of the resort zones must be rented for a
minimum of 90 days. Renting something short-term, such as for a week, is
practically only possible in Waikiki, in Ko Olina around the Disney Resort, and at
Turtle Bay at the north end of the island.

<pic images/kauai-golf.ps The area around Princeville is known for its golf courses.>
<pic images/kauai-beer.ps Local beer on the porch of the Airbnb>

However, Waikiki is much too crowded and filled with high-rises for us, and
it's not what we have in mind for a Hawaii vacation. We understand that living
space is limited on the islands and that measures need to be taken to ensure that
people living on Oahu can still find housing. However, perhaps the authorities
could have proceeded a bit less radically, because after all, the islands also
rely on tourists. The inlaw unit we used to rent in Waimanalo was in the
owners' garden and was very nice, but really not suitable or recommended for
long-term rentals. But since it's now located in the wrong zone, it's no longer
available. What a shame! Nevertheless, we are drawn back to Hawaii. I step off
the plane and immediately feel relaxed. The beautiful turquoise warm water, the
stunning beaches, the laid-back atmosphere, perfect surfing conditions for
Michael, the gorgeous nature —- what more could you want?

<pic images/kauai-stairs.ps Winding paths are leading to secret beaches.>
<pic images/kauai-gecko.ps A gecko like the one from the Geico commercial.>

Since the school I work at partially follows the German school holiday calendar, and we
always have a week of autumn break in October when American schools do not have
time off, we took the opportunity to fly to the Hawaiian island of Kauai this year. We
hadn't been there in a long time. Kauai was the first island we ever visited way back,
and remembered it for its lush vegetation and great beaches. This time, we were
drawn to the north side of the island, and we rented a nice little apartment in
Princeville. The landlord, Gary, lived next door in the big house. Gary was
super generous and even lent Michael his surfboards without batting an eye. We
spent every day swimming in the warm ocean, discovered hidden beaches, and ate endless
amounts of poke, the traditional Hawaiian dish made from raw fish. We are
already planning our next vacation in Hawaii.

@Z: Newly insured with Kaiser

<pic images/kaiser-logo.ps Welcome to Kaiser Permanente Health Insurance>

<em>Angelika</em> In the newsletter, we have often expressed our views on the
deplorable health insurance system in the USA. It is completely overpriced,
inefficient, and only produces mediocre results. A huge, complex, bureaucratic
apparatus in which everything has fallen apart and no one can see through it
anymore, causing grief to both doctors and patients.

We believe that the system is on the verge of collapse if reforms do not happen
soon, but we have little hope that this will occur in the near future. As is
the case everywhere, action is only taken when it is already far too late. I
also find it downright crazy that some people now deem it acceptable that the
CEO of a health insurance company is shot in the open street, and for the
murderer to be glorified as a hero because the frustration with the behavior of
the health insurance companies is so great.

<pic images/kaiser-checkin.ps Checking in at the front desk is quick and easy.>

Obamacare has indeed improved US healthcare and led to far more Americans being
insured. For example, 2024 was a record year in which over 21 million Americans
had health insurance with the help of Obamacare. However, Obamacare is
also part of a system with rising costs and ever-increasing monthly premiums.
Most notably, the insured cannot choose other health insurance options through
Obamacare; only the large, well-known insurance companies offer their contracts
under Obamacare. Currently, there are still tax benefits that significantly
lower premiums for most people who purchase health insurance policies through
the "Affordable Care Act" (i.e., Obamacare). However, these government
subsidies are set to expire at the end of 2025 unless the U.S. Congress decides
to extend them.

<pic images/kaiser-doc.ps At Kaiser, every interaction first goes through the primary care physician.>

In my opinion, a significant drawback of the American health
insurance system is that employees typically receive their health insurance
through their employer. Depending on the size of the company one works for, the
company can offer its employees corresponding health insurance contracts,
called "plans." Large companies with thousands of employees, like Apple or
Google, accordingly have many different plans with various health insurance
providers that offer generous benefits.

The health insurance companies are, of course, very interested in offering
these companies good conditions. When Michael was still at Apple, we both had a
top plan with the insurance company United Healthcare. It was never a problem
to receive services because Apple always had a handle on it. Now, as is well
known, Michael no longer works at Apple, and our Cobra
insurance (<RBLINK>20221220#2</RBLINK>) has also expired after 18 months.

What now? Obamacare is not really an option if you have the possibility to be
insured through your employer, because in this case the Obamacare-insured person always pays the
full expensive premiums without subsidies. However, my school also offers a
health insurance plan for me and allows me to insure my partner and children
for higher monthly contributions. Now, my school is not a big company like
Apple and therefore cannot offer a large number of health insurance plans.
Specifically, there are only two plans to choose from and only one insurance
provider, namely Kaiser Permanente.

<pic images/kaiser-web.ps On the Kaiser website, you can take care of all your paperwork.>

Kaiser Permanente is a very interesting health insurance provider because it
operates its own network of hospitals, clinics, and doctors. Members typically
receive services only at Kaiser facilities, meaning they cannot simply choose a
doctor who is not part of the Kaiser network or have surgery at a non-Kaiser
hospital. Exceptions are only allowed if the Kaiser-insured individual has a
life-threatening emergency and there is no Kaiser hospital nearby, or if the
patient has something so complicated that Kaiser is overwhelmed, such as an
extremely complex brain surgery.

However, Kaiser must first approve this. Kaiser Permanente now has over 12
million members. It operates approximately 700 medical facilities such as
medical offices and clinics in nine states. Kaiser has a strong presence,
particularly in California, as the company's headquarters is in Oakland, right
across the Bay from San Francisco.

Kaiser operates a mixed organizational model, with the Kaiser Foundation Health
Plan and the Kaiser Foundation Hospitals being non-profit organizations. This
means that revenues and surpluses are reinvested back into these medical
facilities. Additionally, there is a third component, the for-profit
"Permanente Medical Group," where Kaiser doctors are employed.

<pic images/kaiser-entrance.ps In the Kaiser Building, there are a pharmacy, a laboratory, and specialist doctors.>

The <LINK>https://about.kaiserpermanente.org/who-we-are/our-history/how-it-all-started|History of Kaiser Permanente.</LINK>, by the way, dates back to the 1930s. A young
doctor named Sidney Garfield opened a hospital in the Mojave Desert in
California at that time to treat workers involved in the construction of the
Los Angeles Aqueduct. The workers paid five cents daily in advance for their
future medical care. The idea of modern health insurance was born. Henry J.
Kaiser, an industrialist, then collaborated with Garfield in the 1940s to offer
this health model to shipyard workers in Richmond, California, during World War
II. After World War II, in 1945, Kaiser Permanente introduced this health
insurance model, namely the integration of hospitals, clinics, and doctors
under the umbrella of a health insurance plan, to the broader population.
Starting in the 1950s, Kaiser expanded beyond California and opened medical
facilities in Hawaii, Colorado, and other states.

Now you must know that I had always sworn to myself never to be insured with
Kaiser. For a long time, that was my absolute nightmare. Coming from Germany,
it was extremely important to me to have the freedom to choose my doctor and,
if necessary, to go to top hospitals like the University Hospital in San
Francisco (UCSF) or Stanford in Palo Alto. I knew people who were either
absolutely convinced and enthusiastic about the Kaiser system or others who
avoided Kaiser like the plague because they hadn't been adequately helped in
more complex medical cases, with dramatic consequences. However, since my
school offered nothing but Kaiser, and after intensive questioning of my
colleagues, who are also well acquainted with the German system, I heard mostly
positive things, and in the end, I thought to myself, let's just give it a try.

Now one must know that Kaiser has undergone a significant metamorphosis lately. Just 20
years ago, every doctor wanted to open their own practice, which sometimes
meant that Kaiser couldn't always recruit the absolute best medical
professionals. However, nowadays it is completely insane to run one's own
medical practice. The bureaucracy is so time-consuming and absurd, and it
becomes more cumbersome every year, that many doctors hardly have any time left
for their patients.

In a previous issue, I had already mentioned once that it is almost impossible to find a new general
practitioner in San Francisco (<RBLINK>20231019#5</RBLINK>). As a patient, you
often have to wait weeks and months for an appointment, whether it's
with a general practitioner or a specialist. For example, I used to go to a
gynecologist at the UCSF university hospital. Getting an appointment with her
required a lot of advance notice and planning. You see: it doesn't help the patient much
if the doctor is an expert but the patient can't get an appointment. That's why
more and more doctors are choosing to work in group practices. The Kaiser
system, as a very large group practice, is particularly attractive to many doctors
because they don't have to deal with various American health insurance
companies with hundreds of different plans, but instead operate as employees
within one system. Interestingly, Kaiser is now attracting better and better
doctors.

<pic images/kaiser-appointment.ps With the phone app, you can make appointments with the doctor ...>

But now back to our personal experiences at Kaiser. First of all, I sent
Michael, who is known to be more flexible and has more time nowadays. He was
impressed by the efficiency and a system that is relatively patient-friendly.

Michael chose a primary care doctor at the state-of-the-art Kaiser facility in
the Mission Bay neighborhood. The general thread at Kaiser is that the primary care
doctor is the central point of contact who takes care of all health-related
matters and coordinates them, such as referring you to a specialist or for a
blood test. As a new Kaiser member, you first select a primary care doctor
through the patient online portal. There is also the option to receive advice on this
by phone, but we did it online. The portal provides the doctors' resumes and
indicates whether they are still accepting new patients.

<pic images/kaiser-app.ps ... and check test results.>

With one click each, we selected our primary care physicians. It is very easy
to change your primary care doctor later if you want, which can also be done
through the portal.  Women are allowed to choose a primary care doctor and a
gynecologist and do not need a referral from their primary care doctor if they
want to see their gynecologist. At Kaiser, the primary care doctor is not
isolated in their practice; you should imagine the whole thing as a huge
medical center where everything is under one roof: primary care doctors,
internists, orthopedists, dermatologists, gynecologists, and ear, nose, and
throat doctors. The radiology department, pharmacy, and laboratory are also all
part of the same system. The doctors all work together since they are employed
by Kaiser and all have access to the patient records.

Doctors aren't paid based on the individual procedures they perform on the
patient, but simply receive a salary. This means that doctors have much more
time for their patients and do not have to rush them through in 10-minute
intervals to keep their practice running. Kaiser places great emphasis on
prevention and generally has a good reputation in this area. Appointments are
relatively easy to get. Patients can usually choose whether they want a video
conference or an in-person visit. Video conferences are suitable for follow-up
appointments to discuss results or are practical if you don't want to sit in a
waiting room with the flu, although sometimes it is important for the doctor to
examine you in person.

<pic images/kaiser-lab.ps Even the lab for blood tests is in the same building.>

Meanwhile, I've visited with my general practitioner and it was great. In the USA,
it is quite common to have an annual check-up that includes a blood test,
listening to the lungs, measuring blood pressure, etc., which I signed up for
to get to know the doctor. She took a lot of time for me and first chatted
extensively about what I do for work and my Christmas plans. For the blood
test, I simply went three floors down. I have to say that I've had to somewhat
revise my prejudices about Kaiser, although I still worry about what will
happen if I ever have something super complicated, because the best system only
proves itself when you are really sick.

What many insured individuals particularly appreciate about Kaiser is that the
hassle of dealing with unexpected bills is generally reduced, as everything
takes place within the same network. In this regard, we have already
experienced quite a bit with various other health insurance companies we have
been insured with, and the Kaiser system is significantly less nerve-wracking.

@Z: Amazon delivery driver off course

<pic images/amzn-prime.ps The Amazon van, the delivery is about to arrive!>

<em>Michael</em> Not only do we order like crazy from Amazon, but also the
neighbors in our apartment building seem to shop at the online giant, and so packages
often pile up in rows in the so-called "lobby" at the street entrance. The
delivery drivers ring recipients through the intercom, and the recipient
presses the so-called "buzzer" on the phone, which unlocks the entrance door.
The delivery driver briefly enters the lobby, leaves the package, and takes a photo
(Figure (#4)), which then appears on the buyer's Amazon app. As soon as I get
a notification, I immediately rush down the stairs excitedly to receive my delivery.

<pic images/amzn-delivered.ps (#4) Normally, Amazon delivery drivers drop off packages in the lobby.>

Delivery drivers would, of course, prefer to just throw down the packages in
front of the lobby door and quickly move on to the next house, but unfortunately,
such deliveries are stolen by criminal creatures loitering in our neighborhood, and
then Amazonn has to replace them. That's why Amazon forces the delivery drivers
to ring the doorbell and bring the packages inside. This almost always works,
but sometimes things go wrong. I have already found packages that the delivery
drivers, under time pressure, have thrown over the gate into the garage; some I
later found torn open on the street as if by wild animals, and some had
completely and mysteriously disappeared.

<pic images/amzn-app.ps The app shows a photo of the delivered package.>
<pic images/amzn-digbys.ps (#5) Strange delivery photo, where did the package go?>

Consequently, when I am expecting a delivery, I am as vigilant as a hawk and
not only take possession of packages immediately upon delivery but also bring up the
packages for neighbors on our floor who are not quite as attentive.
However, something strange happened recently: a delivery was supposedly made,
but the package was nowhere to be found. The delivery photo on the Amazon app did not
show our lobby with the mailboxes but instead appeared to be a shelf with
groceries and kitchen utensils (Image (#5)). Amidst all the chaos, there was
also a yellow envelope that looked just like my order.

I thought hard, and suddenly it hit me like a ton of bricks: The photo showed
the shelf of a restaurant kitchen! And as luck would have it, there is indeed a
restaurant with a bar in the building next door, and the photo could be showing
the kitchen there! So I went downstairs, into the restaurant, and explained my
problem to the waitress. She fetched the manager, and I showed him the delivery
photo. After I assured him that I wasn't crazy, he took my phone, marched into
the kitchen with it, and came back a short time later with my package. We had a
good laugh! Apparently, the Amazon guy, instead of ringing our doorbell, must
have lazily thrown my order through the open kitchen window of the restaurant
next door. You can't make this stuff up.

@Z: Real Estate Trap Property Tax

<pic images/proptax-shock.ps Homeowner shocked by property tax assessment.>

<em>Michael</em> An average single-family home in our neighborhood costs just
under two million dollars. Now, in the heart of the tech industry, many people
in the tech sector have money burning holes in their pockets, so the exorbitant
purchase price isn't really the problem. But one must consider that the city of
San Francisco levies a property tax of 1.17% per year on the assessed house
price.  That amounts to $23,400 a year on 2 million house, which is almost
$2,000 a month.  For that, you could almost rent a ramshackle place in a bad
neighborhood! You could even say that homeowners are essentially renting their
house from the county, at the price of the annual property tax, even though
they bought it with already taxed income. We live in crazy times.

These property tax payments are not insignificant and are collected by the
county and used to initiate relatively sensible things, such as supporting
local public schools. Wealthy suburbs that collect a lot of property tax
usually have the best public schools, while poorer areas often have deplorable
ones. Since most parents prefer good schools for their children, this way
they're driving up house prices in expensive areas with good schools.

<pic images/proptax-sold.ps (#7) For this property, the new owner pays $117,000 in property tax per year.>

Now, until 2017, homeowners were able to fully deduct their property tax (and
also interest on loans) from their income tax to the federal tax office
(Federal Income Tax). However, then-President Trump pushed through with
Congress the <LINK>https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/State_and_local_tax_deduction|SALT-Law</LINK>
which limited the maximum deductible property tax to $10,000. In the state of
California, homeowners can still fully deduct their property tax bills from their
state income tax. However, the state tax amounts to only about
$12,500 for a typical annual income of $200,000, while the federal income tax
amounts to $38,500. And, mind you, "deduct" simply means that you don't have to
pay income tax on the amount of property tax paid: a sort of consolation prize
from the tax office.

That wasn't always so extreme, because 40 years ago, real estate prices were
still about one-tenth of today's level. You heard that right, the little house
that costs 2 million today was available for 200,000 dollars in 1984. So that
Grandma Meume, with her little cottage that she bought 40 years ago for 200,000
dollars but which is now worth two million, doesn't run into financial difficulties
with her modest pension and has to move away from her neighborhood, the so-called
<LINK>https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1978_California_Proposition_13|Proposition
13|California's Proposition 13</LINK>
was introduced in 1976. The law stipulates that the property tax
will remain at the 1976 level, with annual increases of about 2-3%.

<pic images/mansion-sale.ps (#8) The owner of this luxury house pays only 3,721 dollars in property taxes. Why?>

This leads to extreme unequal treatment of homeowners regarding property tax.
Some time ago, a <LINK>https://x.com/rohindhar/status/1763666051202760976|Luxury property|Luxury house in the Sea Cliff neighborhood</LINK> in San Francisco's prestigious Sea Cliff
neighborhood was for sale at a price of nearly 10 million dollars.
According to the real estate listing, the current owner's
property tax bill was only 3,721 dollars annually! The lucky owner probably
bought the house ages ago at a bargain price. However, since the property tax
adjusts sharply to the purchase price upon the sale of a property, the new
owner would then have to shell out a hefty 117,000 dollars per year, which is
almost 10,000 dollars a month! Such a decision requires careful consideration.

Now, the process is not without controversy, as tax fairness would look different,
and even when Arnie Schwarzenegger was governor, he brought up a reform for
discussion. However, he quickly backed down when he sensed the growing
opposition from homeowners. Therefore, the regulation is unlikely to change
anytime soon, as no one wants to evict the scruffy hippies from their
multi-million dollar shacks. It's a hopeless endeavor for any politician.

Recently, it became known that our governor, Gavin Newsom, bought a house in
affluent Marin County (north of the Golden Gate Bridge).
His new <LINK>https://www.sfchronicle.com/bayarea/article/gavin-newsom-marin-house-19920278.php|luxury estate</LINK> cost a modest nine million dollars.
Now how a governor can manage the property tax of about 110,000
dollars per year, when his official annual salary is only 250,000 dollars?
That's honestly a mystery to me.

@Z: Top Product: The Tire Inflator

<pic images/fanttik-tire.ps The Fanttik inflates the tire from 32 to 33 PSI in seconds.>

<em>Michael</em> It's estimated that twice a year, one of our cars runs a flat
tire. Typically, a nail or a screw is stuck in it, causing the air to escape
rather slowly, so we often don't notice anything for days. But suddenly, the
sensor on the dashboard sounds an alarm due to the low pressure. Changing to
the spare tire to drive to the tire repair shop is cumbersome, so I'm glad to
have a tire pump that allows me to quickly inflate the tire and slowly drive
about a mile to the tire shop "Larkin Bros." where expert staff take care
of the problem for $35. The man at the reception once assured me that people
like me keep his shop running.

<pic images/fanttik-amzn.ps (#1) It stirs, pumps, and indicates.>

Such a traditional tire inflator draws its power from the car's cigarette lighter and
makes a hell of a noise while it breathes new life into the tire. Using the
pump stations at gas stations at exorbitant prices has never been my thing.
That's why I've had such a pump in the trunk for 20 years, for emergencies, and
also to pump a few huffs into the tires for maintenance every few months.

However, connecting the electric cable from the cigarette lighter to the pump next to
the tire is somewhat labor-intensive, and so I was surprised to learn that
nowadays there are mini pumps with such brutally enduring batteries that they
make the power cable unnecessary. When I saw the Fanttik pump at my favorite
supermarket, Costco, for $39.99, I first thought, "Ah, I'll wait until the
price goes down," but suddenly this miracle product of Chinese manufacturing was
no longer in stock. Grudgingly I bought a similar model on Amazon and must say:
inflating tires with these battery pumps is a lot of fun, they delight the
child in the man.

<pic images/fanttik-bike.ps The tire of Michael's bicycle also gets some air.>

Since I've had the Fanttik device, it has happened that I go down to the garage
just for fun of checking the tire pressure of our two cars, even though it rarely
strays outside the tolerance range within just one week since the last check.

The operation is incredibly simple: you screw the air nozzle at the end of the
device's hose onto the tire valve, use the arrow keys to set the desired
pressure (for example, 35 PSI for the front tires of the Integra), press the
middle button, and the Fanttik gets to work, pumping air into the tire until
the target pressure is reached, then it stops. Foolproof. The charge of the
built-in lithium-ion battery still showed all three bars after I had inflated 8
car tires by one or two PSIs. I would estimate that you could inflate several
tires from empty to full before needing to recharge it via its USB-C port.

<pic images/fanttik-ball.ps Even the old soccer ball is getting fuller.>

In America, pressure is measured in PSI (pounds per square inch). In Europe,
"bar" is common. The conversion factor is 0.0689, so 35 PSI is approximately
2.41 bar. The pump can not only inflate car tires but also effortlessly fill
bicycle tires. Mountain bikes need about 35 PSI. The pump even provides the nearly
100 PSI required by a Tour de France rider's racing bike tire. Valves for
soccer balls and similar sports equipment are also included. Just set it to 3
or 4 PSI and you're good to go, no problem. Top product! However, the price on
Amazon has skyrocketed in the meantime; currently, the Costco deal is the
better one, as the item has come back in stock.

@Z: Trump!

<pic images/trump-sign.ps One of the few enthusiastic Trump voters in San Francisco>

<em>Angelika</em> I now have the difficult task of explaining to you why Trump
was re-elected President. I actually wanted to let this topic slide, but
Michael said that wasn't an option. To be honest, we weren't too surprised that
Trump was the winner this time. It became quite clear to me early on that
Kamala Harris was not the person who could beat Trump. However, I was quickly
put in my place whenever I expressed this opinion. Nowadays, very few people
are willing to engage in open and honest discussions or are even interested in
listening to opinions that slightly differ from their own. One should not
conclude that someone supports Trump just because they considered Kamala Harris
a weak candidate.

I had already mentioned in our last newsletter (<RBLINK>20241031#1</RBLINK>)
that the election came down to reaching undecided voters, as the base voters of both
the Democratic and Republican parties had already made up their minds when
Kamala Harris entered the race. Harris's close connection to Biden weakened her
position from the start. Issues such as illegal immigration, the dire
and chaotic situation at the Mexican border, the continued high cost of living,
and rising crime in major cities were central for many undecided voters.

Statistics about declining inflation or crime, which many Democrats frequently
cited, did not convince these voters, as their everyday experiences did not
align with the statistics. The fact that the Democratic Party sent Harris into
the race, who had been tasked by Biden to curb the flow of migrants at the
borders, which was unsuccessful, indicates a certain level of tunnel vision.
However, Democratic leadership seemed to rely on emphasizing the dangers of
a second Trump term leading to a Democratic victory. This strategy had already
failed in 2016. It is not enough to simply say, vote for me because I am not
Trump.

Many undecided voters were looking for clearer answers from Kamala Harris and
more charisma, a truly not to be underestimated factor in American election
campaigns. Trump ruthlessly exploited the fears of voters and positioned himself
as the savior of the working class and the common man, gaining many votes from
voter groups that had once tended to choose Democratic candidates, such as
Latinos and Blacks. This time, Trump even achieved the majority of
all direct votes, and the majorities in the Senate and the House of
Representatives also shifted in favor of Republicans. What particularly
worries me about Trump as president is his lack of impulse control, his
narcissism, and a cabinet full of people who have no idea about the departments
they are leading. When did it actually start that people constantly
overestimate themselves and think they can hold important positions without any
experience? I wouldn't apply for a brain surgeon position either. We have four
interesting years ahead of us.

And finally, a piece of local political news from San Francisco: Daniel Lurie
is the new mayor of San Francisco (<RBLINK>20241031#2</RBLINK>). He won
against previous mayor London Breed and left-wing favorite Aaron Peskin.

Greetings from Trumpistan:

Angelika und Michael
