San Francisco, 12-24-2024

@Z: Christmas 2024

<pic images/weihnachten-2024.ps Angelika's Christmas Collage>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Another newsletter already? Yes, my Christmas
sermon is still missing, as Michael always says. And of course, it's
part of Christmas that this special newsletter is written at the last
minute, before we bring our tree in from the balcony and I decorate
it.

In our family, we always decorated the tree on the morning of
Christmas Eve, before going to the nativity play in the early
afternoon. The older you get, the more you remember these moments
with fond sentimentality, even if they might have annoyed you at
times in the past. But it's also nice to maintain your family's
Christmas traditions. Everyone has their own, from food to
singing.

At our home, we always sang Christmas carols before the gift-giving,
and I often accompanied them on the guitar. Everyone had their
favorite song and could request what was sung. I always wanted to
sing "Leise rieselt der Schnee" or "Süßer die Glocken nie klingen."
My grandma loved "Stille Nacht, heilige Nacht" and always missed the
note on the line "schlaf in himmlischer Ruh," especially when she was
already quite old. Unfortunately, Michael is not much of a singer,
but since I now work at a German school, I still get my fill. We sing
with the children throughout the Advent season, and on the last
school day before the Christmas holidays, there is Advent singing
with the parents. And what was the first song we sang together this
year? Of course, "Stille Nacht, heilige Nacht," my grandma's favorite
song, and my eyes immediately became teary.

My mother also used to hang the Christmas cards on a ribbon in the
hallway like a garland, and I would count the cards and see who had
written them. I'm still counting ours today, and the cards are also nicely
displayed. Writing Christmas cards is somewhat of a dying art,
although we still receive quite a few because I also send out many
handwritten cards with my collage. Of course, we also appreciate all
the electronic messages, but a handwritten card is truly something
special. Michael writes so little by hand these days that his
handwriting has become almost illegible (Fake News, the editor).

How do people in the USA handle card writing nowadays? Traditionally,
the so-called "Holiday Cards" are sent out at the beginning of
December, although many arrive later. Here, people also start putting
up the Christmas tree shortly after Thanksgiving, which is always at the end
of November. Many now send a photo card with good wishes, which they
create on platforms like Shutterfly or Mint. These cards usually have
a short text printed on them and photos of the family, including
pets. Sometimes there are just photos with a simple "Happy Holidays"
or "Merry Christmas." Unfortunately, only a few people still take the
time to write a detailed year-in-review, which used to be common
here. However, I always find them very nice, especially from people
we don't often talk to or see. It helps us stay updated. I have a
friend who writes her year-in-review so humorously that I always have
to laugh out loud.

The history of the Christmas card is, by the way, very interesting.
The first commercial Christmas card is said to have been created by
John Callcott Horsley, who designed it in England in 1843. The idea
then spread to the USA, where printed Christmas cards became
increasingly popular in the mid-19th century. Louis Prang, a German
immigrant and printer in Boston, is often referred to as the "father
of the American Christmas card." Around 1875, he began mass-producing
high-quality Christmas cards. Prang's cards featured nature scenes,
flowers, and non-religious motifs that appealed to a broad audience.
Companies like Hallmark, founded in 1910 in Kansas City, Missouri,
later offered a wide range of card designs and themes. Incidentally,
Hallmark is still active in the card business today and produces
cards for all sorts of occasions.

We hope that you have received at least one greeting that has made
you happy, touched you, or made you laugh.

In this spirit, "Merry Christmas" and a good year 2025. Whatever
comes our way.

Angelika und Michael
