San Francisco, 08-24-2025

@Z: Our Apartment Building Is Up For Sale

<pic images/forsale.ps Our apartment building is up for sale, who wants it?>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Housing in San Francisco is notoriously scarce and absurdly
expensive. Since we have been living in this city, nothing has
changed in that regard, and there is no improvement in sight.
Apartments that fall under the city's rent control are particularly
sought after, as they offer tenants special protection. We have been
living in such an apartment for over 20 years now.

In general, rental apartments in buildings constructed before June
13, 1979, in San Francisco are subject to rent control. Single-family
homes and condominiums are generally excluded. Rent control means
that while the landlord can charge whatever they want for new
tenants, they can only increase the rent once a year by a percentage
set by the city; currently 1.4% (from March 1, 2025, to February 28,
2026). The previous year it was 1.7%. The landlord can increase the
rent every 12 months, but is not required to do so. Missed increases
can be applied later by adding up the allowed annual increases, but
without compound interest.

How does the city arrive at the annually allowed percentages? They
are based on the local consumer price index, specifically 60% of it.
Every year that a tenant can avoid a rent increase is, of course,
advantageous. The landlord must announce increases 30 days in
advance. If the increase is over 10%, which can happen if there
hasn't been a rent increase for several years, the notice period
extends to 90 days. You can probably guess it. This year, we had a
rent increase after eight years. Sigh.

<pic images/compass-listing.ps The real estate agent is advertising our building.>

Hardly had we digested that when suddenly, in mid-June, we found a letter taped
to our door. A local real estate agent announced that our
building was to be sold, and that a viewing of the apartments would be
necessary. In San Francisco, it is required that property viewings be
announced at least 24 hours in advance. The letter also included a
questionnaire and explanations of our tenant rights. More on that
shortly. We had feared and anticipated the sale because our landlord
Gus, who had built the house himself in the early 70s, had passed
away some time ago at well over 90. Gus had been very attached to the
house and had always kept an eye on things even in his old age. A very
interesting man, our Gus. In his very young years, he moved from
Switzerland to San Francisco and actually lived the American dream,
as he bought land and built houses, and was very successful at it.
Several years ago, he had transferred the management of our house to
one of his daughters. And we knew: She would sell the house as soon
as Gus would no longer object.

In my opinion, whoever buys our apartment building must be a bit
crazy because nothing has been done to the house for years. For
example, our elevator regularly breaks down, and the water pipes in
the garage keep leaking, creating huge puddles. But Michael always
says that in the end, everything is a matter of price.

Now tenants in a building with rent control enjoy extended rights
when the building is sold. The buyer cannot simply change existing
rental agreements or evict tenants, and the rules regarding rent
increases remain in place. Tenants generally cannot be forced to fill
out and sign a so-called estoppel certificate. What exactly is behind
the term "estoppel"? Generally, "estop" means "to prevent" or "to
prohibit." Basically, the form spells out the current rental conditions.
When did the tenant move in, what deposit did they pay, is there a
parking space and if so, where is it, or has the tenant made any changes
or improvements to the apartment and paid for them themselves? Once
this form is filled out and signed by the tenants, it is considered
binding, and the tenants cannot later claim or sue for something
different. However, this also applies if something is not mentioned
on the form. Therefore, legal experts debate whether it is
advantageous or disadvantageous to fill out this form. If the rental
agreement states that it must be filled out, there is no way around
it.

Since the estoppel also lists things that were only agreed upon
verbally, which the new landlord should be aware of so that they
continue to be valid, we felt that the advantages outweighed the
disadvantages, and we dutifully filled it out. Another important form
that should be completed concerns the question of whether one belongs
to a "Protected Class." Tenants who fall under this specially
protected category cannot be terminated due to personal use by the
owner in the event of a change of ownership. These include: 1)
Tenants aged 60 and over who have lived there for at least 10 years.
2) Tenants with disabilities who have also lived there for at least
10 years. 3) Tenants with severe, life-threatening illnesses who have
lived in an apartment for at least five years. Approximately half of
the tenants in our building fall into these categories.

<pic images/compass-rent-roll.ps What each party pays in rent is publicly listed in the rent roll.>

When a house is for sale in the USA, a process called "staging" takes
place, which means the homes are adorned with stylish furniture and
impressive, enhanced photos are taken to help sell the house more quickly
and at a higher price. In an apartment building where people live,
this is naturally a bit more challenging, but the realtor still did
their best. Our neighbor's apartment was photographed, and some
general beautification attempts were on the agenda. For example, in
our entrance lobby downstairs, there had been this wood paneling on the
wall that had probably been there since the house was built. It was
rigorously torn out, and the lobby was painted in such a bright white
that I'm always quite dazzled now when I step through the front door.
The building walls were also cleaned with a high-pressure water jet. However,
we were not informed about this, so suddenly the dirt sprayed through
the cracks of our apartment door because it no longer closed
properly. Thankfully, we were home and could immediately cover and
clean everything with towels.

But how much should our house cost now? A mere 7.9 million dollars.
For San Francisco, that's not even that much, since the smallest
"doghouse" here now costs over a million. To let potential buyers
know what rental income they can expect, the realtor creates a
so-called "Rent Roll" list, which is available online. It not only
lists every single apartment with its number but also how much rent
each tenant pays, how long they've lived there, and what the rent
would be if the apartment became vacant. Because only in the event of
a move-out can the landlord raise the rent to the current market
price, even for rent-controlled apartments. Privacy is less of a topic
in the U.S. than in Europe.
In our building, rents range from 679 to 4,500 dollars per month. This
depends partly on the size of the apartment and partly on how long
the respective tenants have lived here. Some of our neighbors moved
in when the building was completed and accordingly pay very little.

<pic images/compass-expenses.ps Is the investment of 8 million dollars worth it?>

In any case, the whole situation is incredibly annoying despite all
assurances. Someone constantly wants to come into our apartment.
Recently, there was another note on the door saying that repair work
would be carried out next week. And who knows who will end up buying
the building. For the landlord, it's naturally most lucrative if the
long-term tenants move out, as this allows the rent to be adjusted to
the market rate. We've already heard horror stories about the methods
used to push tenants out. And I definitely don't want to live on a
permanent construction site. But moving isn't an option either, as a
comparable apartment would easily cost twice as much.

@Z: Costco Business Center

<pic images/costco-biz-beef.ps The meat portions at Costco Business are somewhat more generous.>

<em>Michael</em> 
I have often written here about the mega supermarket Costco and the
love-hate relationship we have: On one hand, I like the low prices
and the generous quantities in which Costco sells goods. On the other
hand, the beehive-like overcrowding with customers, the slow checkout
process, and the chaos in the parking lot really get on my nerves.
All of the three Costco warehouses in our area are packed with
customers from morning till night, all parking spaces are occupied,
and you can really only shop there comfortably at completely absurd
times.

<pic images/costco-biz-soysauce.ps This bucket of soy sauce will last a lifetime.>

Not only private individuals are now shopping at Costco, but also
operators of restaurants and food stalls, because some products are
actually cheaper there than at wholesale outlets. In addition to the three
mentioned Costco locations near us, there is another one for business
people, the "Costco Business Center." It is generally not as
well-known, but you can shop at the Business Center with a regular
Costco membership card. However, instead of buying a box with 8
avocados, you buy a crate with 40. Or a container with 1,000 plastic
plates, or a few miles of aluminum foil.

<pic images/costco-biz-avocado.ps (#1) Avocados until they come out of your ears.>

The best part, however, is the refrigerated section with all the
goats (illustration (#2)), which are fully gutted and hanging on
hooks, costing only $3.39 per pound. I have actually seen customers
take a goat carcass off the hook and lay it across their shopping
cart to push it to the checkout!

<pic images/costco-biz-goat.ps (#2) Or how about a whole Australian goat?>

The Costco Business Center also offers professional equipment for
hospitality businesses and shops. Back in my school days, I worked
for a while as an employee of a cleaning crew for machine halls, and
the professional mop press for $59.99 (illustration (#3)) brought
back memories for me, making me feel sentimental!

<pic images/costco-biz-mop.ps (#3) Mop press for proper mop drying>

For shopping, the quantities at the Business Center are almost always
too large for me, and you should also know that, unlike a regular
Costco, they don't sell wine or beer there. However, they do have fun
accessories; recently, I saw a freezer display case with a glass lid
there (illustration (#5)), like the ones where popsicles are kept at
gas stations. How cool would something like that be in the living
room!

<pic images/costco-biz-freezer.ps (#5) Ice chest with glass lid>

Or the professional ham slicer from illustration (#11), just like
the ones in butcher shops! I could put on a white apron at home and
quickly slice a huge whole ham into wafer-thin slices. Endless fun
for the whole family!

<pic images/costco-slicer.ps (#11) Who hasn't at some point fancied a sausage slicer?>

When I discover something funny during my shopping trips, I like to
send a photo via WhatsApp to Angelika to tease her. She often
promptly replies with "Absolutely No Way!!" and I crack up laughing.

@Z: South San Francisco Sign Hill Park

<pic images/ssf-sign-south-view.ps (#4) The well-known letters on the hill in South San Francisco>

<em>Michael</em> 
Who doesn't know those widely visible "Hollywood" letters on that
hill down there near Los Angeles? Ah, that reminds me of the old
Lindenberg song "Norma Jean" (actually a German adaptation of the
American original): "Those Hollywood letters, high above the film
city, have already crushed many who were stronger than you,
schallalalong ...

<pic images/ssf-sign-map.ps The hill with the letters as seen from highway 101 on the way from SFO airport to downtown San Francisco.>

Well, in San Francisco we have (almost) something similar, namely the
so called sign hill park with the letters
<LINK>https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/South_San_Francisco_hillside_sign|South San Francisco The Industrial City</LINK>
You can see them well when you drive
towards San Francisco from the airport on Freeway 101 heading north (Figure
(#4)). I have often wondered what these letters look like up close
and if there is a story behind them. And since my guiding principle
these days is to simply carry out every silly idea that pops into my
head in the morning, I recently drove there as a roving newsletter
reporter and explored the situation.

To understand this, one must know that "South San Francisco" and "San
Francisco" are two completely different cities, each with its own
administration. Yes, the smaller sister city located 10 miles south of
the original is not even located in San Francisco County, but belongs to San
Mateo County, which extends further down into Silicon Valley.

<pic images/ssf-sign-m2.ps The racing newsletter reporter at Sign Hill Park>

To the history: The letters were carved into the hill in 1929 (after
a temporary installation in 1923) at the urging of the Chamber of
Commerce of the then-bustling small city of South San Francisco,
which was thriving with steel industry, meat processing plants,
and shipyards. The goal was likely to encourage the influx of
additional business. Nowadays, the pharmaceutical giant Genentech
is the most active employer there. The hill with the letters is part
of the San Bruno Mountains, although "Mountains" is relative here, as
the tiny hill is only 400 feet high.

The outlines of the letters were carved into the hill in 1929 and
filled with white cement. The construction costs amounted to 5,000
dollars at the time. To ensure that the lettering could be easily read from a
great distance, despite the slope of the hill, the project's engineer
employed all sorts of geometric tricks. The letters are enormous,
with the third row alone stretching almost 200 meters in width.

On <LINK>https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/South_San_Francisco_hillside_sign|Wikipedia</LINK>
you can find still more interesting details about the installation, for
example, that in 1932 an additional electrically operated luminous
beacon was installed, but it was turned off due to fear of air
strikes during the then-raging Second World War--and it was never
turned on again.

<pic images/ssf-sign-l.ps View from Sign Hill Park over to the east towards the Bay.>

With Google Maps, you can easily find out exactly where the entrance
to the "Sign Hill Park" is located. It's off a hidden residential street in
South San Francisco. A circular trail about two miles long leads up the
steep slope via stairs and to the summit plateau with a weather station,
from where you can enjoy an impressive panoramic view in good
weather, overlooking the San Francisco Bay and the suburbs of Silicon
Valley.

<pic images/ssf-sign-t.ps Only with an extreme wide-angle lens can the letters be captured, here's the 'T' in 'SOUTH'.>

Hikers can get very close to the letters if they deviate slightly
from the marked path, but the slope is estimated to be 45 degrees
steep and there is little to hold onto. Additionally, coyotes are
prowling around. The whole thing is a rewarding excursion, especially
for curious people like me.

@Z: Gerrymandering

<pic images/gerry-examples.ps Gerrymandering: Depending on how the district boundaries are drawn, the election outcome changes.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
In the last newsletter, I had already begun to outline some weaknesses
in the American Constitution and the political system of the USA in
general, which can lead to abuses of power in various degrees,
depending on who is currently in charge. Trump tests the limits every
day to see how far he can go. Next year, the so-called midterm
elections will take place. During these elections, all 435 seats in
the House of Representatives and 35 of the 100 Senate seats will be
up for grabs. Traditionally, the sitting president receives a setback
in these elections, meaning that the majorities usually shift, which
makes governing more difficult if this shift is to his disadvantage.
Trump is aware of this and is trying to take precautions, including
through the political strategy of "gerrymandering".

But what exactly does gerrymandering mean? We have mentioned this tactic here and
there before (<RBLINK>20061124#8</RBLINK>).
Today, however, I would like to delve deeper. Partisan gerrymandering
refers to the practice of drawing (or rather manipulating) electoral
district boundaries in such a way that a particular party or
candidate is clearly favored. The whole concept hinges on the fact
that the election results of a district do not contribute
proportionally to the overall outcome, but rather only one candidate
wins the district: "Winner takes all."

In theory, electoral districts should be designed in such a way that
different voter groups are fairly represented. Therefore, in the
United States, after each census, which takes place every ten years,
the drawing of district boundaries is adjusted to the current
population data. Depending on the state, the responsibility for this
lies either with independent commissions or with the legislatures.
California is one of the states with an independent commission.
However, in most states, the respective legislature decides, and you
can imagine that the districts are then drawn according to partisan
interests, in favor of the ruling party.

Two methods are particularly popular in gerrymandering: packing and
cracking. Packing means "packing" as many voters of the opposing
party as possible into a few electoral districts. While the
opposition wins these districts with very large majorities, the votes
are practically wasted because they are missing in other districts.
Cracking is the opposite strategy: the voters of the opposing party
are spread as widely as possible across many districts so that they
cannot form a majority anywhere.

<pic images/gerry.ps A pamphlet against gerrymandering arrives in the mail.>

Here is an example that might make the whole thing clearer: An area
with 100 voters is to be divided into 5 districts, each with 20
voters. 60 voters support Republicans, and 40 voters support
Democrats. With a fair division, this would result in 3 Republican
and 2 Democratic seats, corresponding exactly to the 60/40 ratio.
Now, let's imagine the Republican Party controls the districting and
wants to reduce the Democratic seats as much as possible by packing
their voters into as few districts as possible. Therefore, in District 1, all 20
votes go to the Democratic Party and none to the Republican Party.
The packed district thus goes 100% to the opposing party. However,
these votes are now missing in the other districts and are thus
wasted. In Districts 2, 3, 4, and 5, 12 votes go to the Republican
Party, and accordingly, 8 go to the Democratic Party. Republicans
win these districts with 60% each, as the "winner takes all"
principle applies. This leads to the overall result that the
Republican Party now gets 4 seats and the Democratic Party only one.
In "cracking," the opposite strategy is applied, as already
mentioned. In our example, all 5 districts then go 60% to the
Republican Party, which thus receives 5 seats, but this no longer
reflects the political landscape of the area.

<pic images/gerry-flyer-1.ps This election flyer refers to the 2010 ban on Gerrymandering in California.>


It is common to redraw the electoral districts after a census (the
last one took place in 2020). However, Trump is currently pursuing a
strategy to encourage states controlled by Republicans, where the
legislature determines the electoral districts, to redraw them in
their favor before the midterm elections.

Perhaps you heard that a few weeks ago, Democratic representatives
from Texas temporarily left their state to prevent a vote on new
electoral districts in the Texas House of Representatives. However,
Texas followed Trump's call and redrew some districts to likely
secure five additional seats for the Republican Party in the
congressional elections in November 2026. This has since been passed.

Our Californian Governor Gavin Newsom is now following suit and wants
to also redefine the electoral districts in California. California is
firmly in Democratic hands. Until now, the outline of electoral
districts in California has been handled by an independent
commission, but Newsom wants to temporarily transfer this
responsibility back to the California State Assembly. A move that
would benefit the Democratic Party. The logic behind this: California
could send more Democrats to Congress and thereby counterbalance the
approach taken by Texas. Ultimately, this does not solve the real
problem, namely that gerrymandering is undemocratic and should be
abolished. In deeply polarized times, however, it seems to be all
about "an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth."

<pic images/gerry-flyer-2.ps Allegedly, the upcoming special election on Gerrymandering will cost tax payers 200 million dollars.>

Now you must know that in our state, the California Constitution
actually guarantees the independence of district determination. It
was a major concern of then-Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger to end
gerrymandering in California. Through his initiative, two amendments
were introduced into the California Constitution: Proposition 11 (in
2008) established a 14-member commission to determine the districts
for the California legislature, and in 2010, this was extended to
congressional districts through Proposition 20. Arnie, although a
Republican, is a vehement critic of Trump and has recently spoken out
again, as he is now also against Newsom's initiative. However, Newsom
has prevailed, and now all California voters must vote in a special
election this November on Proposition 50. If the voters agree, the
California Constitution will be amended, and for the elections in
2026, 2028, and 2030, the districts will once again be determined by
politicians. This week, the first election pamphlets have already
arrived at our house.

@Z: Spezi in America

<pic images/spezi.ps (#7) The beverage market sells Spezi for 3.50 dollars per 0.33-liter bottle.>

<em>Michael</em> 
At the end of 2023, we'd heard
<LINK>https://stacker.news/items/338097|rumors</LINK>
that the quintessential German driver's drink "Spezi"
would make it to the USA. In reality, Spezi is nothing special, just
cola with Fanta and a bit of lemon, but all the sweetness of youth is
contained in these memories of bulbous 0.4-liter glasses of the
brown drink, with a half slice of lemon floating on top.

Due to the lack of purchasing options, I had already tried mixing
Spezi myself in the meantime (<RBLINK>20121103#3</RBLINK>).
But nowadays, to be honest, I prefer drinking Coca-Cola. However,
not the corn syrup sludge that's sold under the brand name here in
America, but rather re-imported "Mexican Coke" at the exorbitant
price of 2 dollars per bottle, which is still sweetened with cane
sugar.

<pic images/mcoke-costco.ps Reimported Mexican Coca-Cola with cane sugar>

Now we are in the year 2025, and the rumor mentioned above has
apparently become reality. Recently, I found a six-pack of 0.33-liter
bottles of the Paulaner "Spezi," which has been renamed "Sunset,"
at the "Total Wine" beverage market for the astronomical price of
$19.99. An employee of the beverage market vouched for the quality of
the imported drink with a photo (illustration (#7)), so I, of course,
reluctantly bought it.

The first impression was not overwhelming, as the drink is less
sweetened than the aforementioned Mexican Coke. However, perhaps my
palate has become too accustomed to the generally more heavily
sweetened drinks here in the USA after all these years.

<pic images/spezi-lemon.ps At home on the kitchen table>

The fact that the drink is now called "Sunset" instead of "Spezi" is
due to a legal dispute in which the Paulaner brewery, which
distributes it, fell out with the Augsburg brewery Riegele. Paulaner,
which now belongs to the conglomerates Schörghuber and Heineken, was
not allowed to use the brand name registered by Riegele since 1956
and the typical Spezi eye logo on the bottle cap.

As I said, Mexican Coke, which is ultimately identical to the
Coca-Cola sold in Germany, tastes better to me. Maybe I should throw
a slice of lemon into the glass after all?

@Z: Top Product: Bring Your Own Hook

<pic images/hooks-kitchen.ps Finally, a hook in the Airbnb to hang the kitchen towel.>

<em>Michael</em> 
Anyone who, like us, frequently stays overnight in foreign cities and
books rental properties through Airbnb or Vrbo might know that while
many of these apartments are in top condition and prime locations,
they all suffer from the same issues.

I'm talking about the fact that in these vacation homes there are
never enough coffee tables to put glasses and other things, and that there's
nowhere to hang a towel or a piece of clothing.

The latter problem is the systematic shortage of hooks. I don't know what
your kitchen looks like, but in ours, hooks are drilled into the wall
where kitchen towels hang. In the bathroom, hooks are drilled into
the wall where bath towels hang. In vacation rentals rented out by
amateurs, these things are missing for reasons unknown to me.

<pic images/hooks-amzn.ps A set of four hooks for a small price on Amazon.>

For this reason, I bought a set of four portable hooks on Amazon that can be
hung over doors or other vertically positioned shapes. These hooks
curve upward on the front side, inviting you to hang a piece of
clothing or a towel. The set travels with us, and quickly turns any
uncomfortable rental apartment into a comfy home.

<pic images/hooks-shower.ps Missing hooks in the bathroom were quickly replaced to dry towels.>

Why do I now call the useful little helpers "Butzenhaken"? Well, when
you have lived abroad for too long without linguistic feedback, like
we have, you start to develop the German language uncontrollably, and
eventually, a jumble like
<LINK>https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Texas_German_language|Texas German</LINK>
emerges, the dialect used by emigrated Germans in Texas.
In my personal dialect, I refer to rented places, usually through
Airbnb or other platforms, as 'Butze', following another exiled
German named Roland. And "Haken" means "Hook", so Butzenhaken! Top product!

@Z: Bitters for Whiskey

<pic images/bitters.ps The tasty bitters essence>

<em>Michael</em> 
The cowboy days, when a tough guy in dusty clothes, like Clint
Eastwood, would enter a saloon and quietly say "Whiskey!", prompting
a bottle and a glass to slide across the bar, and the tough guy would
pour himself the whiskey, gulp it down, and grimace at the
throat-burning taste, are definitely over.

Cocktail enthusiasts nowadays prefer palate-pleasing drinks, and to
ensure that even affordable hard liquor tastes smooth and doesn't
scratch the throat, "bitters" are added to whiskey, as is the case
with the classic
<LINK>https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Old_fashioned_(cocktail)|Old Fashioned</LINK>
cocktail.
It is mixed from rye whiskey, sugar (!), water, and bitters, and
served garnished with a lemon peel. Bar patrons most fittingly wear a
suit from the Mad Men collection with it.

<pic images/old-fashioned.ps Classic "Old-Fashioned" Cocktail (Wikipedia)>

<LINK>https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bitters|Bitters</LINK>
are tinctures with all sorts of exotic, bittersweet spice
notes from plants that no one has ever heard of, like cascarilla
(Caribbean), cassia cinnamon (southern China), and cinchona (South
America). Gentian and orange peel are also said to play a role. I
once bought a set of bitters on special offer at the discount
supermarket Grocery Outlet, but since they tasted terrible, I had to
give the bottles away. The bitters from Trader Joe's, on the other
hand, are amazing. About 10 drops from the bottle, just like
measuring homeopathic medicine, are enough to give even a less
flavorful bourbon whiskey from the liquor store exotic notes. Top
product! Of course, this only applies if you're not already pouring
high-quality Scotch whiskies from the Scottish Highlands, where
bitters would certainly be out of place.

@Z: San Francisco City Guides: Noe Valley

<pic images/noe-walking-tour-1.ps Interested participants on the tour through our neighborhood.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
I find it continually amazing that even after almost 30 years in San
Francisco, we still discover new places. During the pandemic, we
started taking daily walks around the city and surrounding areas.
Although we no longer walk every day, we still do so regularly.

Recently, Michael found out that there is a City Guides tour in our
neighborhood, Noe Valley. These
<LINK>https://sfcityguides.org|Free tours|City guide tours</LINK>
are a great thing! Volunteers are leading tours through various
neighborhoods of San Francisco with great enthusiasm. The tours are
free, but donations are welcome. The idea goes back to librarian
Gladys Hansen, who in 1976 sought volunteers to guide tours of San
Francisco's City Hall. Since then, the program has greatly expanded
and now includes numerous districts throughout the city. It is still
under the patronage of the
<LINK>https://sfpl.org|San Francisco Public Library</LINK>
where you can easily sign up -- and off you go.

<pic images/noe-walking-tour-2.ps The crowning conclusion of the tour at the Noe Valley Market Square.>

The tours are not really aimed at tourists but especially at locals who
want to get to know their city better. On a sunny Saturday, we took
the tour through Noe Valley. It was well attended. Although we
thought we already knew everything about our neighborhood, we learned a
lot of new things. What fascinated me the most was that the Victorian
houses, which so characterize our neighborhood and cost millions
today, were originally built cost-effectively for the working class
in the 19th century. They were often arranged like row houses to save
space. One of the most significant builders was Fernando Nelson, who
had many of these houses constructed in Noe Valley. Now I'm just
waiting for Michael to volunteer for the City Guides.

Greetings from our city!

Angelika und Michael
