San Francisco, 11-28-2025

@Z: Things Are Looking Up Again In San Francisco

<pic images/lurie-nyt.ps Even the well-known newspaper, The New York Times, dedicated an article to Mayor Lurie.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
I'm a big fan of our new mayor, Daniel Lurie. As attentive newsletter
readers know, he surprisingly won the city election as an underdog in
November (<RBLINK>20241031#2</RBLINK>)
and has now been in office for almost a year. Nowadays, people
hardly have any expectations of politicians, but I must say, the man
is doing a really good job so far. With his calm, thoughtful, and
pragmatic manner, he often finds a reasonable middle ground.
According to the latest surveys, 71% of citizens agree with me and
say they are satisfied with his work. An astonishingly high approval
rating in a city where everyone loves to endlessly debate and many
are convinced they know everything better.

<pic images/b-sidewalk.ps Drug addicts are still hanging around downtown, but there are fewer of them.>

You can really tell that Lurie genuinely cares about San Francisco.
What I find particularly pleasant is that he doesn't constantly put
himself in the spotlight and doesn't engage in low-level exchanges
with Trump on the platform X, like some other politicians do. On the
contrary, he was even able to convince Trump not to send the National
Guard to San Francisco because the city itself has initiated measures
to improve public safety. The tent cities on the sidewalks have
visibly decreased, and open drug use is declining because drug
dealers are being arrested more consistently, and more pressure is
being put on drug addicts to accept help such as withdrawal and
therapy. The dirt is piling up a bit less in certain corners. I was
really amazed recently when I entered the subway station at 24th
Street; the forecourt was sparkling. And the typical urine smell that
usually greets you there was completely absent.

<pic images/cc-powell.ps Powell Street at the cable car line was spotlessly cleaned.>

Lurie has also set out to straighten out the bureaucratic madness so that
things can be implemented more quickly, such as making more beds
available for the homeless. Of course, many problems cannot be solved
overnight. The number of fentanyl deaths remains alarmingly high (in
October alone there were 27 deaths), and downtown is recovering very,
very slowly from the effects of the pandemic. Still, there's too many empty shops,
too many abandoned offices, too little life on the streets downtown.
Here, too, Lurie is trying to counteract and help smaller
businesses in particular by reducing bureaucracy and fees. It is said
that Lurie is out and about in the city every day, engaging in
conversations with residents, listening to their concerns and
suggestions. I'm waiting for him to stop by us in Noe Valley, because
I would also like to have a chat with him.

<pic images/b-bayview.ps Many homeless people have moved away from the city center.>

San Francisco has always been a city that continually reinvents
itself and must keep doing so. This began with the gold rush and continued
after two major earthquakes in 1906 and 1989, through the AIDS
crisis, the bursting of the dot-com bubble, and finally the pandemic.
At the moment, it almost feels as if the city is experiencing a small
renaissance. Self-driving taxis are zipping futuristically through
the streets, new ideas are emerging, and many residents are once
again looking at their city with optimism. And as we know, such
optimism is a bit contagious.

@Z: Delivery Services and Grubhub Lurkers

<pic images/gh-beefy.ps Delivery service moped men are racing all over the city.>

<em>Michael</em> 
I can tell that I'm really getting old by the fact that I just
can't wrap my head around why someone would order food from a delivery service.
For people from the Millennial or Gen-Z generation, it seems completely normal
to have lukewarm food delivered to their unventilated rooms at exorbitant
prices. A sandwich shop owner once told me that he sometimes sees people
sitting in their rooms in houses across the street, ordering a sandwich from
him via an app and having it delivered 20 meters across the street for a
three-dollar fee.

<pic images/gh-doordash.ps Doordash, Grubhub, Caviar are all different delivery services.>

<pic images/gh-boulangerie.ps A Grubhub lurker is hanging out in front of a restaurant.>

At the end of the nineties, just as we had arrived in San Francisco
with a bang, bike couriers were considered hot shit. Back
then, they were less associated with delivery services, but the
internet wasn't as fast as it is today, and companies often had to
send important documents or data carriers from location A to location
B. In cities with hopeless car traffic like New York City or San
Francisco, bike couriers stepped in, daringly weaving through the
standstill of rush hour traffic to transport items in
grotesquely large flat bags across the city.

<pic images/gh-wait.ps Often, the Grubhub scooter guys hang out at trendy restaurants.>

The image of the well-trained, tattooed long-haired person who disregarded
conventions, fearlessly zipping through the streets of the megalopolis, riding
up in the elevator in their outlaw attire along with their bicycle, to the
executive floors and their suit wearers, had a coolness factor of over 10,000
and inspired many followers.

<pic images/gh-muff.ps (#8) Grubhub guy with typical puffy sleeves and always on the phone.>

During the Covid era, delivery services became fashionable because
sitting in a restaurant suddenly became very out of style. Since
bicycle couriers were either too slow or couldn't transport ten cubic
feet of food, daring riders of Vespa-like smelly mopeds or couriers
on illegally souped-up electric bikes stepped in to fill the gap. This
industry has long been established in major cities of the third world; in
Bangalore or Delhi, moped men also weave through the streets to deliver
warm meals or drinks to their masters.

Moped men can be recognized by their handlebar muff sleeves (illustration (#8))
and the grotesquely large (about ten cubic feet) warming boxes in which they
transport the lukewarm mush around.  Interestingly, this job is often done by
either Latin Americans or Indians. They race through the dense traffic, dressed
in arctic grade puffball jackets, and, like madmen, weaving recklessly through
standstill traffic. Often, they don't pay attention to traffic but
instead keep staring at their phone, which is attached to the moped's handlebar,
sometimes even typing on it, probably to arrange the next delivery.

<pic images/gh-mixt.ps Grubhub driver picks up an order from a restaurant.>

I often observe the lukewarm mush couriers loitering on their delivery
mopeds in front of trendy restaurants, where our hipsters apparently
prefer to order their food. At this point, the couriers, still
inactive, sit on the saddles of their propped-up mopeds, bored,
tapping away on their phones and waiting for an order to come in
through delivery services like Grubhub, Doordash or Caviar, so they can quickly
accept the job on the app. Then they dash into the restaurant, receive the meal
packed in boxes and plastic bags, and hop on their moped to speed
away. Depending on the hipness of a restaurant and the time of day,
it can happen that half a dozen couriers are sitting in their saddles in
front, tapping away on their phones. Bizarre!

<pic images/gh-phone.ps Always on the phone, even while driving, very important.>

As I said, for me personally, a delivery service would only be
interesting in exceptional circumstances. For example, if I had a contagious
disease and couldn't leave the house because of unsightly pustules on
my face. In all other cases, I would prefer to pick up the meal myself, or cook
something nice, or we would just go to a restaurant. But, hey, to
each their own, not the same for everyone!

@Z: "Government Temporarily Closed"

<pic images/budget-crisis.ps The government cannot find a budget compromise and shuts down.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Since October 1st, I've sometimes felt like living in a banana republic. The
ladies and gentlemen politicians in Washington couldn't agree on a
new federal budget in September and therefore went home in a huff,
while we citizens were left in the lurch. Without an approved budget,
federal spending was frozen, and the US administration was operating
on a low flame. Offices and agencies closed or offered only severely
limited services.

<pic images/budget-airport-1.ps At the airports, many flights were canceled.>

Many government employees were sent home without pay. Others,
responsible for essential services or security--such as air traffic
controllers--had to continue working, albeit without pay.
Naturally, this greatly upset many, and sick leave reports increased
sharply. Some even sought side jobs, such as package delivery drivers for
Amazon. This is because many people in the USA have little savings,
live paycheck to paycheck, but their expenses remain the same,
regardless of whether the government shuts down or not.

<pic images/budget-parks.ps National parks had to close during the shutdown.>

How did this so-called "Government Shutdown" come about? The U.S.
budget must be passed by both the House of Representatives and the
Senate. In the Senate, it requires 60 out of 100 votes. More
precisely, it needs 60 votes to end the so-called filibuster in the
Senate. The filibuster is a strategy used by the opposition to
prevent or delay a vote through prolonged speeches. Although the
Republicans currently hold a slim majority in the Senate, they only
have 53 votes, meaning they needed votes from the Democrats to pass
the budget. However, the Democrats refused to give their approval
because they demanded that the budget include funds for federal
subsidies for Obamacare insurance premiums. These subsidies are
officially set to expire at the start of the new year, which would
mean significantly higher premiums for many citizens who are insured
through Obamacare.

<pic images/budget-discussion.ps Members of Congress could not agree on a budget.>

This brings me back to my series "What is difficult in the American political
system and urgently needs to be changed?" In many other democracies, the old
budget remains valid until a new one is passed to ensure stability. The legal
basis for the entire drama in the USA is the so-called Antideficiency Act. This
law, which dates back to the 19th century, prohibits federal agencies from
spending money or paying employees if Congress has not passed a budget.
However, it was not strictly enforced until 1980, and expenditures continued to
be paid regardless. However, then-President Jimmy Carter's Attorney General put
an end to this practice and decreed: Without a budget, the money flow is cut
off.  Since that time, "government shutdowns" have occurred repeatedly.
However, they have become more frequent and last longer in recent times
because, in times when no one can agree or make compromises, they are used as a
political pressure tool.

In the population, it is understandably not well-received when their
own government no longer works for the citizens, even though the
members of Congress and Senators are paid with their tax dollars.
Often, the party considered to be the driving force behind the
"shutdown" is punished in later elections. By the way, members of
Congress and Senators continue to receive their salaries, as
stipulated in Article 1, Section 6 of the U.S. Constitution. It's no
wonder that some people wonder why there aren't larger protests.
Since 2019, government employees have at least been guaranteed back
pay for their unpaid salaries once the shutdown is over.

<pic images/budget-crissy-2.ps The park "Crissy Fields" in San Francisco is federally owned and was closed during the shutdown.>

After 35 days of shutdown, the votes of eight Democrats helped to pass the
provisional budget, although without the assurance of Obamacare
subsidies. By the end, air travel was already severely affected, as
many flights had to be canceled due to a lack of air traffic
controllers. This caused unrest among many politicians, including
Republicans. Thanksgiving was approaching at the end of November, as
it does every year, and traditionally, it feels like every American
flies home to see their family. It is the most sacred of American
holidays, and no one wanted to risk incurring the full wrath of the
citizens.

<pic images/budget-snap.ps Not even SNAP food stamps for the needy were issued.>

Some government employees lined up at charitable organizations to help with
food distribution, and when these images circulated in the press, the pressure
increased. Then there was the back and forth regarding food stamps, called SNAP
(Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program), for people living at the
subsistence level. Initially, the payments were halted, but they were
reinstated under pressure. Now, the provisional budget is going to be in effect
until the end of January 2026, and then another vote will be necessary.

@Z: King of the Asian Markets: "H Mart"

<pic images/hm-entrance.ps The intrepid newsletter reporter in front of the H-Mart in San Francisco.>

<em>Michael</em> If there has ever been a comparable hysteria about a new store
in San Francisco as there was back in 2000 about the then-new Ikea in nearby
Emeryville (<RBLINK>20000801#1</RBLINK>), then it was the hype around the
branch of the Korean food giant "H Mart," which opened its doors in 2024 in the
Ingleside neighborhood on Alemany Boulevard.

<pic images/hm-shelf.ps Rich selection of Korean specialties.>

There are already several excellent supermarkets for Asian groceries
in our city, which is not exactly lacking in international gourmets,
but the chain "H Mart" is like the Berlin-based department store KDW, only
for Koreans, and it
often holds childhood memories, as described in the book
<LINK>https://www.amazon.com/Crying-Mart-Memoir-Michelle-Zauner-ebook /dp/B08DMXF7ZZ|Crying In H Mart"</LINK>,
which I have read and found to be okay, but I do not want to praise
it highly in front of the audience on this popular forum.

<pic images/hm-crying.ps Even books have already been written about H Mart.>

Now, H Mart is Korean, and accordingly, the store carries about 47
different types of kimchi (spicy Korean fermented cabbage) and other
delicacies like bulgogi (thinly sliced beef in a spicy sauce) or
chicken feet marinated in barbecue sauce.

<pic images/hm-chicken-feet.ps Specialty at H Mart: Marinated chicken feet.>

But the range also includes fresh Japanese udon noodles or canned
coconut milk or spicy curry pastes, which I like to use for my
now-legendary red Thai curry. It also has a fish counter, or Japanese
mushrooms, or other hard-to-find ingredients like lemongrass or Thai
basil. Simply everything you need to cook Asian dishes at home,
perfect!

<pic images/hm-blue.ps Blue-tinted chickens are considered a delicacy.>

The selection of sushi also makes most stores that offer supermarket
sushi look like 2nd class. Whether it's monkfish liver, unagi (cooked eel in
teriyaki sauce), or uni (sea urchin), everything is very well made. I
visit the store about once a month and have now become quite familiar
with the aisles of more exotic ingredients. The store is spotless and
offers extremely fresh goods at normal prices. Slightly more
expensive than other Asian grocery stores, but also more on the ball,
definitely worth the extra cost.

@Z: Low Rider Parade in the Mission District

<pic images/lr-high-1.ps Low riders jump sideways at the push of a button.>

<em>Michael</em> 
One of the most exciting details of our nearly 30-year residence in
the city of San Francisco is still the fact that I only have to walk
or bike half a mile down the hill from our neighborhood, Noe Valley,
and I find myself in the "Mission" district, or in other words, the
chaos of Mexico City.

<pic images/lr-turn.ps Hooray, the parade is starting!>

In 1997, when we moved here, it wasn't entirely safe, because there
were occasional shootings between rival gangs. However, that didn't
stop me back then from exploring the neighborhood with a friend even
after nightfall, although with my knees shaking.

<pic images/lr-wide.ps The hydrolics engineering in these cars is quite spectacular.>

Nowadays, there is no longer any danger, but the foreignness remains:
the bustling commotion, the chatter in Spanish everywhere, the
somewhat casual attitude towards law and order. People might sell
stolen goods on the sidewalk or grill sausages without a permit from
the city; things aren't as strict down there.

<pic images/lr-one.ps Member of the vintage car club visibly enjoys the parade drive.>

Latin American residents of the Mission neighborhood also maintain their
own traditions, such as the holiday on May 5th (Cinco de Mayo) or the
"Carnival" (not unlike the German Fasching), but also in September,
the parade of the so-called "Low Riders," souped-up, often lowered
vintage cars that can sometimes jump at the push of a button thanks to
adventurous hydraulic constructions.

<pic images/lr-bounce.ps All eyes are on the hydrolic suspension in this car.>

The models of classic American brands, lovingly maintained by
enthusiasts over 50 and cherished in car clubs, can be admired by the
audience at the roadside during the so-called "Low Rider Parade" when
their owners, with pride-swollen chests, slowly drive down "Mission
Street."

<pic images/lr-two.ps Tough guys, almost like in Breaking Bad.>

The participants view their souped-up cars as works of art
in the venerable Latino tradition. Many years ago, the city of San
Francisco even temporarily banned the so-called "cruising" on Mission
Street, but in protest, car enthusiasts formed the "San Francisco
Lowrider Council" in 1981 to legalize and promote the showcasing of
these artworks. And in 2024, our Governor Gavin Newsom even signed a
decree stating that the state of California officially recognizes
cruising by stating it <LINK>https://www.cbsnews.com/news/california-lowriders-free-to-cruise-after-bans-come-to-an-end/|should never be banned again| Anti-Anti-cruise-ban by the governor</LINK>.

<pic images/lr-truck.ps Even pickup trucks are lowered.>

A German TÜV car inspection employee would naturally have a fit of hyperventilation
at such modified vehicles, but Californians are entirely unfamiliar with
the concept of such regular safety checks; only emissions are regularly checked here,
and classic cars are even exempt from these. I attended the event as a
roving photojournalist for this issue, and it went off peacefully,
just like in previous years. It was even 
<LINK>broadcasted live on Youtube|https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l2qavq3mjbo|Low Riders 2025 on Youtube</LINK>.
Unbelievable, times live in!

@Z: Buyer Found for Our Apartment Building

<pic images/sold.ps Our apartment building was sold for 8.4 million dollars.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
We were quite surprised at how quickly a buyer was finally found for
our apartment building (<RBLINK>20250824#1</RBLINK>).
In September, the deal went through, and everything was finalized.
However, to this day, we have no idea who the buyer actually is. He
has not made a single appearance. No introduction, no information,
nothing. Instead, a property management company is now taking care of
everything, from collecting rent to repairs and renovations of vacant
apartments. It's quite convenient to finally have a reliable point of
contact who knows what they're doing and has been handling things
fairly promptly so far.

In recent weeks, various necessary improvements have been made as required by
the city of San Francisco, which had been somewhat neglected until now. Smoke
detectors are now installed in every room (except in the bathroom).  Although
we already had some before, there were significantly fewer. Now we have to be
extremely careful that even harmless steam from cooking or blowing out a bunch
of candles doesn't set off the alarm. Then, one day, diligent workers installed
new connecting conduit with alarm boxes in our built-in closets, which are now
connected to the central fire alarm system, just like the ones in communal
areas like the stairwells. It is a requirement that the fire alarm in the
stairwell must be audible in every room of the apartment.

<pic images/elevator.ps The old elevator sometimes gets stuck.>

Our old elevator, on the other hand, still hasn't been modernized.
With beautiful regularity, it gets stuck en route. By now, we know a few
tricks to get it running again, like pulling the stop button and pushing
it back in, or walking through the entire building to check on each floor if
the elevator doors are closed.

Despite everything, I miss the personal contact with our old landlord
Gus, who would always drop by from time to time and talk with us
about everything under the sun.

@Z: Kennedy and Autism

<pic images/cdcvs.ps The CDC's website on the topic of autism>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Anyone who knows me a little better knows that I have always worked
with autistic children, both in Germany and in the USA. Right after
graduating from high school, I did a year-long internship at the
Heilpädagogische Bildungsstätte Altenoythe, where I encountered
children with an autism diagnosis for the first time in my life. My
later internship at the clinic for autistic children in Bremen (now
called the Autism Therapy Center) also had a significant impact on
me. At that time, the Bremen center was a leader in diagnosis and
early intervention, and there I not only met a large number of
children and adolescents with autism but also learned a lot
about life in general. I still think about some of the children from back
then today.

Although autism has been known for a long time and was already
described in 1943 by Leo Kanner (early childhood autism) in the USA
and by Hans Asperger (Asperger syndrome) in 1944 in Austria, much has
changed over the decades. The number of people diagnosed with autism
has increased significantly. Nowadays, people also refer to an autism
spectrum disorder, meaning that autism exists on a continuum and
manifests in a wide variety of forms.

Now everyone is arguing about how this recent increase in numbers comes about. I
agree with the group of experts, also based on my own professional
experience, who believe that it is mainly due to earlier, broader,
and improved diagnostics and the fact that autism is now widely
recognized, meaning that parents, doctors, and educators can identify
it better. For example, the autism diagnosis in girls was often not
considered because autism symptoms in girls often look a little
different than in boys. So, autism is not necessarily more common
today, but it is recognized more frequently. If there is anyone among
our newsletter readers who is interested in its history, I can highly
recommend the following book: "In a Different Key: The Story of
Autism" by John Donvan and Caren Zucker. The book is very vividly and
excitingly written. I am very surprised that it has not yet been
translated into German.

The exact cause of how autism develops remains somewhat of a mystery
despite intensive research, although it is now agreed that it is a
complex developmental disorder with a strong genetic component.
Simply put, one inherits the predisposition, but additional factors
must come into play to trigger autism. There is not one gene or
genetic mutation that causes autism, but rather likely a multitude of
genes that, through a complex interplay with various other
environmental factors (e.g., infections during pregnancy,
complications at birth, older parents), that lead to autism.

Unfortunately, there have been and continue to be attempts to explain
autism that are not based on facts. As recently as the 1970s, mothers
were blamed for autism because they were supposedly cold to their
children, and as a result, these children did not form bonds with
them. Bruno Bettelheim, a well-known American psychologist,
propagated this nonsense and caused a lot of harm. Then there was the
persistent belief that the combination vaccine against measles,
mumps, and rubella triggers autism. Andrew Wakefield, a British
doctor, published a study on this in 1998 and advised parents against
the vaccination. However, the study was later found to be fraudulent
and has since been refuted by numerous studies.

Unfortunately, this has not yet reached our current Secretary of Health,
Robert Kennedy. Initially, he announced that he would get to the
bottom of autism within nine months, which, of course, did not
happen. However, the well-known vaccine skeptic and opponent Kennedy
couldn't resist and actually ordered the wording regarding
vaccinations and autism on the official CDC website ("Center for
Disease Control") to be subtly changed. Instead of continuing to
explicitly assure that vaccinations do not cause autism, it now
states that <LINK>https://www.cdc.gov/vaccine-safety/about/autism.html|
"Scientific studies have not ruled out the possibility that infant vaccines contribute to the development of autism"</LINK>. This just leaves me speechless.
Not only is it unsettling to parents, but there is also the danger that
autism research will be steered in the wrong direction again. Not to
mention that we are already experiencing increased measles outbreaks
in the USA because parents are no longer vaccinating their children.
I had measles as a child because the vaccine wasn't available to us
yet, and I can only say that measles is no picnic, and I would have
gladly done without it.

@Z: The Most Controversial Bike Path In the World

<pic images/vbl-ssec.ps Something different: A bike path in the middle of the street.>

<em>Michael</em> After I was able to report some time ago about the most
expensive toilet in America in our neighborhood Noe Valley
(<RBLINK>20241031#3</RBLINK>), I continue in this issue with the most absurd
bike path on planet earth. I need to first explain that "Valencia Street" runs
through our neighboring district "Mission." Until a few years ago, it was a
four-lane road with bike lanes marked on both sides.

<pic images/vbl-luxury.ps Michael enjoys the ride on the luxury bike path in the center of Valencia Street.>

The city planners from the SFMTA (San Francisco Municipal Transportation
Agency), in collaboration with local cycling groups, thought to themselves:
"Today, we're going all out! We're eliminating two of the four car lanes, and
all parking spaces, and will be building a fifteen feet-wide luxury bike lane
in the middle of the street! That will teach those silly drivers a lesson
they'll never forget, ha ha!" And since our tax coffers are brimming with funds
for insane projects, a gigantic road construction site was quickly set up, and
the project slowly began to take shape.

<pic images/vbl-amados.ps The pub owner claims that he can now close up.>

<pic images/vbl-puerto.ps The Mexican restaurant also thinks that customers are staying away from the establishment because of the center bike lane.>

After the initial excitement about the new luxurious "Center Bike
Lane," disillusionment soon set in. How does a cyclist make a right
turn into a side street when there are still cars driving to the
right of the bike lane? New confusing traffic light sequences were
devised, and drivers were prohibited from making left turns along the
entire route. Oh, and if only one lane per direction is open for cars,
how does a fire truck on a call get past the cars stuck in traffic? No
problem, the fire truck just drives on the bike lane in the center!
Once, I was riding my bike there, and one of those typical giant San
Francisco fire trucks (illustration (#1)) came towards me with
flashing lights on the bike lane. I almost fell off my bike in shock.

<pic images/sffd-truck.ps (#1) Typical fire truck in San Francisco>

<pic images/vbl-dirt.ps Valencia Street: Masked rioters make noise.>

And the bars and shops along Valencia Street also filed complaints.
Allegedly, there were far fewer customers, probably because of the
eliminated parking spaces. Personally, I appreciated the luxury bike
lane in the middle, but when turning, I always had to be as cautious
as a hawk to avoid being run over by a car. Additionally, some car
and scooter drivers made left turns despite the ban, leading to
<LINK>https://missionlocal.org/2023/10/scooter-struck-sf-valencia-center-bikeway-uturn/|some accidents with injured cyclists|Accident on the Valencia bike lane</LINK>.
And, of course, the bicycle highway attracted all sorts of riffraff,
electrified aggressive cyclists, and even the so-called "dirt bikers"
who are unfortunately common in the area, racing around illegally on
off-road motorcycles without license plates.

<pic images/vbl-mta.ps Construction workers couldn't care less; the city is paying for it anyway.>

To cut a long story short, after a while, city officials decided to terminate
the "pilot project," as they now called it, and again turned the street back
into a permanent construction site to reinstall regular bike lanes on
both sides of the road. However, since every 100 feet there now is a
so-called parklet from some pub, covered wooden structures with
tables and chairs for outdoor dining, cyclists now have to constantly
zigzag, as the bike path winds in a completely crazy way around the
little huts.

<pic images/vbl-snake.ps The restored old bike path now zigzags along the edge of the roadway.>
<pic images/vbl-ramp.ps The new bikepath even leads over ramps!>

In the end, the old bike path now runs along the edge of the road
again, albeit with huge cracks in the asphalt and massive potholes. For cars,
the street still offers only one lane per direction, but a few parking
spaces have returned, and generous striped no-go zones adorn the rest.
The millions wasted on the pointless construction project won't come
back, though, but at least the city has gained some experience.
After all, it was all free money!

Greetings from Crazytown!

Angelika und Michael
