San Francisco, 12-24-2025

@Z: Christmas 2025

<pic images/xmas-2025.ps Christmas 2025>

<em>Angelika</em> 
I am very late with my Christmas newsletter this year. But first,
several holiday parties had to be attended, then the handwritten
cards needed to be sent out, the Christmas collage had to be created,
and, of course, I had to decorate the tree myself on December 24th,
as is tradition. This time, it is all in white. However, it took a
while to get it into the stand because Michael started extensive
sawing until the trunk was perfect. Activating the various saws in
our apartment is always a bit like a jigsaw puzzle since they are stored
everywhere due to our limited space and lack of a basement. But in
the end, we managed it.

The Christmas season is always particularly beautiful for me at the
German School. The highlight is the Christmas market. That's where I
really get my money's worth. In the school system, many things are cyclical:
before the holidays, there's a lot to be done, and it often gets
hectic until everyone heads off with shining eyes into the
well-deserved break. A turbulent year is behind us, with an enormous
pace, and we could hardly believe it was already time to buy a
Christmas tree again. Also, the year was exhausting, partly
because of the many loudmouths in this world. That seems to be almost
socially acceptable by now--the louder, the better. I always say,
those who shout are usually in the wrong.

Sometimes you have to tune out the noise, and I have always used the
strategy of reading books when I want to escape into other worlds. Reading
delights, comforts, broadens the horizon, and is simply fun. For me,
Christmas has always been closely linked with reading stories. As
children, we were read to during Advent, and even later, there was
nothing more wonderful for me than receiving books as Christmas gifts
and burying my nose in various tomes during the holidays.

Therefore, today I would like to particularly recommend a book to you
that I read this year and consider one of the best reads of the last
ten years. I have already gifted it several times. It is by the
American author Barbara Kingsolver, who received the prestigious
Pulitzer Prize for it in 2023. The title is "Demon Copperhead," both
in the original and in the German translation, inspired by Charles
Dickens' "David Copperfield." The story is set in one of the poorest
regions of the USA, the Appalachians, which have been heavily
affected by economic upheavals and are severely suffering from the opioid
epidemic that has completely destroyed many families.

The book is told from the perspective of Demon, the son of a very
young single mother who has herself experienced a lot of violence. It
addresses themes such as poverty, drug addiction, violence, youth
homes, child labor, and systemic failure, and tells about them with
brutal honesty. At the same time, Demon repeatedly experiences
friendship and humanity and shows remarkable resilience over a long
period. You learn a lot about the USA and about people who feel
abandoned and betrayed by everyone. The book is a hefty tome, typical
of Barbara Kingsolver, but I was really sad when I had finished reading
it, it drew me in so much.

In this spirit, I wish you all more time for reading in the new year
and, of course, Merry Christmas!

Angelika und Michael

P.S.: By the way, my collage this year is titled "Things Seem Different
Underwater".
